Key issues that Indian education system is facing
Ritesh Rawal

Even though India’s literacy rate has been growing, are we truly imparting the kind of education modern times demand, and to every Indian? The answer is ‘no’. There are a number of issues Indian education system is facing, and one is rural-urban gap. It appears little attention is being paid to the education system in rural India. According to ASER, about 50% students in 5th standard attending rural schools are not capable of reading a text meant for junior classes.

Lack of ample schools: Local transportation is a problem in rural India, and this assumes greater significance when it comes to education. At many places, good schools are outside the villages, and this can deter parents from sending their kids to such schools. Lack of affordable schools: As compared to urban areas, government schools are not as spread out in rural areas, and this can discourage parents to spend on their kids’ education.

Poor infrastructure: Most rural schools lack good infrastructure, including well-trained teachers. This leads to poor quality of education being imparted. Various studies have demonstrated a wide gap between rural and urban education. In urban areas, the number of schools per person is higher, as is the quality of education delivery—due to relative lack of infrastructure, including reliable electricity. Also, it has been seen that schools in rural India have numerous non-academic issues to deal with, including staff and infrastructure, and thus are not fully capable of focusing on student development.

We need new learning techniques for the betterment of rural education, and here technology can help—for example, electricity shortage can be met by, say, solar power. Also, we need to rethink education delivery in the face of existing challenges—there has to be more focus on conceptual learning and practical knowledge (going beyond the classroom).

The author is founder of Ritesh Rawal Foundation. Views are personal.
Indian students prefer Asia-Pacific and Europe for MBA, US applications see a drop
United States has been a popular destination for Indian students to pursue a master’s degree. There has been a steady rise in the number of Indian students studying in USA, thanks to its excellent quality of education and career prospects. While US remains the top choice for Indian students to pursue master’s in science and engineering, recent stats have shown a dip in MBA applicants for USA.
The survey was carried out by Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC), which conducts GMAT- the qualifying test for MBA admissions in United States. 1087 graduate business programs taught in 363 universities were the sample set for this survey.

There was a 7% decline in the MBA applicants from India, according to the survey.
At the same time, there was an increase of 8.9% for the Asia-Pacific region, 7.7% rise for Canada and 3.2% for Europe. While the course is still opted by the students, USA is not as preferred as it was previously. This reveals that Indian students are seen to prefer Europe, Asia-Pacific as well as Canada for Master’s in Business.

Along with this, the Asia-Pacific region has seen a rise in applications from not only Indian but also a significant amount of international students.

While the universities in United States are eager to on-board international talent for their MBA programs, the high cost of studying in United States along with volatile VISA policy for Indians might be one of the reasons why Indian students are opting for countries other than United States.

The MBA program has most applicants who are working professionals wanting to add to their experience with a master’s degree. Since the rate of employment for graduate individuals in India is increasing, hence pursuing a master’s degree by quitting existing jobs might not be a top choice for Indians, going forward.

“Non-US Programs are still generating interest among the students, but the opportunity-cost being higher in USA, there’s a dip in the US applications” said Sangeet Chowfla, the CEO  and President of GMAC.

According to experts, this is not a positive change for United States. The country for its steady economic growth needs more diversity and international talent and international individuals need to be given more liberty to study and work in USA.

Better VISA policies and decrease in the overall cost for pursuing MBA in USA can change the scenario, going ahead. 
Government to provide free coaching for JEE and NEET 2019 onwards
Preparing for engineering or medical entrance tests can be a costly affair, given the ever-rising prices of private tuitions and test series.  In late august 2018, the HRD ministry has declared its intent to provide free coaching for these entrance exams 2019 onwards.
This serves as a ray of hope for those unable to afford the expensive coaching that students need for scoring these exams.

According to the latest update, the entrance exams like NEET and JEE Main will now be conducted by NTA- National Testing Agency. These exams were previously conducted by CBSE- the central board of secondary education.
From 2018, NEET and JEE Main will be held online and the government had equipped 2697 practice centers that will enable students to practice the online format examinations. These practice centres will be operational from 8th of September 2018. Students will be able to take the mock-tests offered prior to the actual examinations.

Starting 2019, these centers are also set to provide free coaching to the students appearing for JEE Main and NEET. The coaching will especially benefit the rural and semi-urban students who cannot afford or access good quality training for the examinations.  

This will serve as a blow to the expensive private coaching institutes but will benefit the students.

The coaching is proposed to begin in May 2019.
NEET, JEE & NET to be conducted by National Testing Agency from the year 2018
According to the latest updates, the general test examinations like NEET, JEE and NET will be conducted by National Testing Agency from 2018.
The NEET exam is conducted as an entrance test for under-graduate medical whereas the JEE is a test conducted for under-graduate engineering. Both the exams along with the NET, which is the eligibility test for teachers and professors was previously conducted by CBSE (the central board of secondary education).

The NTA (National Test Agency) will also be responsible for conducting several other prominent examinations on the National level.
The NTA received cabinet approval in November 2017. As a special agency created specifically to conduct examinations, the NTA is set to develop and improve the education system on the national level.

The NTA will also be conducting the following important exams from the coming year:

JEE Mains
NEET
CMAT
GPAT
NET
A dedicated agency to conduct exams means well-organised exam and result structure, centralised processes and better amenities and provisions at the exam centres. With more and more exams adapting the ‘online’ format, this was a much-needed step.  

While there are no changes in the syllabus of these examinations, most of the paper-only tests will be now conducted ‘online’ unlike before.

This is said to ensure that there are no delays in conducting exams, announcing the results as well as no chances of paper leak and other malpractices.

In the light of this news, there is another interesting update provided by the office of Prakash Jawadekar, the HRD minister. According to this update, the National Testing Agency will also provide free coaching for JEE and NEET examinations.
