Despite of being an awesome architecture, why is thappar university not among the top 10 in India?
How do international students see India for pursuring higher education?
As a teacher in many countries I have never known any student who wanted to study in India.

Your educational system has a reputation for being rigid and antiquated, more like the Victorian style in England.

When I have worked with Indian professors I have personally found them unable to adjust to modern teaching techniques. They seem to think they are “silly’ and that everyone should go through the same educational system as they themselves experienced in India.

Please note that i make an exception for my friend Hari, adn Indian who embraced our educational system in the US wholeheartedly and is now a respected prof rather than being know as “That Indian prof”. He wrote the program that the post office uses to read handwritten zip codes on envelopes.
It depends on what the students are after and what country they are from.

Students visit international countries for specializations in their fields, for future job opportunities, for learning under highly reputed scholars, for cultural exposure and deeper global understanding to name a few.

Considering India, many international students focus on cultural exposure. Usually (ofc not always) they arrive on exchange programs or for full-time programs where they like to deepen their understanding of Indian literature, anthropological studies, language and at times study of rare disease.

Overall, IITs in India have a great international reputation for engineering an IT. When international students arrive specifically for IITs they are indeed looking beyond culture and focus on engineering and IT.

Hope this helps.
Nothing great to be honest ! I am a proud indian but indian education system is still too hierarchical and controlled by what are views of giver ( teacher ) .. views and opinions of taker ( student ) does not matter ! Our education system is too rigid .. exam oriented than learning oriented .. focus is more on individual accomplishments than team .. group learning .
Not many from western world visit India for higher education but many students from SAARC and African countries visit India for higher education.

Information technology is the favourite discipline in which students from these countries register for their higher studies. Physiotherapy, Pharmacy and Para medical courses is another set of disciplines, which is witnessing surge of students from SAARC as well as other countries.

A few universities are attracting students from Mangoloia and China also for English language.
When i was searching Colleges for my brother last year, I have seen many portals in google’s search. I am from AP and working at Kochin, And brother wish to study somewhere in the middle areas. Then Shortlisted Bangalore, Chennai, Coimbatore, Mangalore and Kochin. Still we dont know which are the major players in the market to get the proper guidance and rankings online.

Therefore we did a proper research and listing out the TOP HIGHER EDUCATION PORTALS LIST and its brief description as per my research.

1) Shiksha.com We may depend this portal as its running by Info Edge Ltd which is the parent company of Naukri.com, Site is quiet easy but a little bit confusing. We will get almost all colleges details. Running for almost 10 Years.

2) Career360.com

We will find many interesting articles and less colleges , very confusing portal. But dependable portal as they run career360 education magazine. Running for more than 8 years.

3) HtCampus.com

Dependable portal as running by Times Internet and Times of India News paper firm, Easy to use internet but more advertisements are present. Vast colleges options to choose, Running for 5 years.

4) CampusHunt.in

Easy to use website and can be depend as they run one of the major recruitment firm FirstPayslip.com and they do free guidance and service. Running for more than 3 years.

5) CollegeDunia.com

easy to use website , But confusing interface, Running for 3 years.

6) CollegeSearch.in

Very user friendly portal with vast knowledge base and that too graphically. Present in the market for 2 years.

7) Minglebox.com

Confusing portal and more concentration is now for abroad studies, Still running for few years and can be depend.

8) PagalGuy.com

Famouse portal in northern indian side, Still running for couple of years and would be depend.

9) JagranJosh.com

Vast number of articles and knowledge base but all written contents, no graphical presentations and all. Still can search for some colleges.

10) YoungBuzz.com

The last in the list , but having average contents.

