Telangana SSC supplementary exam 2019 date released, check here
Telangana TS SSC result 2019: To pass the exam, a student needs to score at least 35 per cent marks in each of their subjects. With supplementary exams, those who could not clear the exam at first go will get a second chance.
Telangana TS SSC supplementary exam dates: The Telangana Board of Secondary Education (TBSIE) has announced the result of the Senior Secondary Certificate (SSC) today. Students who have failed in their class 10 exams can appear for the supplementary examinations that will be held from June 10 to June 24, 2019.

The pass percentage has increased and 92.43 per cent students cleared the exam this year. Around 4,374 schools secured overall 100 per cent pass percentage. A total of 56.53 per cent private candidates cleared the examination successfully, with the girls this year too, outperformed boys by securing a pass percentage of 61.40 per cent. The pass percentage of boys is at 53.65 per cent.
CCTVs as deterrent to cheating in board exams? Numbers don’t agree
Barring 2017, when a slight dip in cheating cases were reported, there has not been much decline in the cases of copying and unfair means during the board ecamination.
Installation of CCTV cameras in almost all the examination centres to deter students from cheating and copying during the state board exams seems to have not made any impact. This year again, over 2,500 cases of students resorting to unfair means during the Class X and XII state board exams were detected after verification of over 3,500 CDs of footage of the recordings. However, case of students being caught physically by the examiners are not included in it.


Advertising
The CCTV cameras were tested on a pilot basis for two years since 2013 after which the scheme was extended to almost all the examination centres. In 2015, the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) was awarded Skoch award under the smart governance category.

Barring 2017, when a slight dip in cheating cases were reported, there has not been much decline in the cases of copying and unfair means during the board ecamination.

In 2015 board examinations, when the CCTV cameras were introduced, the total number of unfair means cases detected by the CCTV cameras was 7,448, the highest number in five years. Among this, 4,173 — the largest number of copying cases — were reported from Anand district alone.
In 2016, over 2,500 copying cases were detected from CCTV footage. In 2017, nearly 2,100 copying cases were detected, while in 2018, a total of 2,550 cases were detected.
With history of anomalies that have been reported in the past years, the GSHSEB is currently carrying out an extensive verification to check any further discrepancies in the CCTV footage. For instance, there have been cases of schools submitting tampered CDs of the CCTV footages to the Board or electricity supply intentionally being disrupted to avoid CCTV recording of examinations.

Keeping this in mind, sources said that the GSHSEB is planning to make it mandatory for all the schools to have audio facility along with the CCTV recording for the board examinations. The board had attempted to introduce it this year, but after resentment from schools it was made optional. “With strict monitoring of examination centres like making it mandatory to depute Class I and II officials as observers at all over 700 sensitive and hyper-sensitive exam centres across the state, this year we are not expecting many cases of discrepancies,” said GSHSEB chairman A J Shah.

According to Shah, this year, the number of hand-held tablets to record the examination was also reduced to only 509 rooms from nearly 1,000 in 2018, with CCTVs covering 63,000 of the total 63,615 examination centres. Since there more chances of tablets being manipulated, Shah believes that reduce number of tablets would result in fewer number of discrepancies.
Pune University admission 2019: Check exam dates, test pattern, how to apply
Pune University admissions 2019: Entrance exam has become mandatory for admissions to PG courses. Apply at unipune.ac before May 25, 2019.
Pune University admission 2019: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) formerly known as Pune University announced to conduct entrance test for admission postgraduate programmes which will be conducted between June 10 and 20, 2019. SPPU invites applications for its postgraduate programmes in various disciplines such as arts, science, technology, computer science, law and management.


Advertising
Candidates can apply to the university via the online mode on the official website, unipune.ac.in and fill up the application to be sent to the respective department by post. The last date to apply is on May 25, 2019. The eligibility criteria for every course varies.
Study in Canada: Top universities, visa norms, scholarships – all you need to know
As more and more Indian students are preferring Canada as their study destination. Here is all they need to know about the education system and application process to help them make an informed choice.
While students vary of studying at all-time favourite study destinations, US and the UK, thanks to their changing norms related to visa, employment and migration-welcoming policies; Canada is moving towards being the first choice for Indian candidates wishing to study abroad.


Advertising
Known for making a huge investment in the education system, Canada is home to hundreds of prominent educational institutions. The levels of education in Canada is divided into a certificate, diploma, advanced diploma, bachelor’s degrees, postgraduate diplomas or PG certificates, master’s degrees and doctorate (PhD).
Study in Australia: Top universities scholarships for PG, UG courses
Check out the top scholarships available for Indian students to study in Australia-based institutes, how to apply, eligibility and prize of the scholarships.
Each year, hundreds of students from across the globe flock to Australia for higher studies, making it the third most popular international student destination in the world. An extensive line-up of courses also makes the Down Under one of the favourite education hubs for Indians too.

To have a smooth and financially viable journey Australian universities provide several scholarships, specifically for its international students. Here are some of the top scholarships for Indian students looking to study in Australia:

List of Top Australia Scholarships for Indian Students
1 Melbourne International Undergraduate Scholarship, University of Melbourne- up to AUD 56,000
2 Dr. Abdul Kalam International Postgraduate Scholarship, University of Sydney- 50% of the tuition fees

3 Monash International Merit Scholarship, Monash University- AUD 10,000

4 Information Technology International Merit Scholarship, Monash University- AUD 6,000

5 School of Chemistry & Molecular Biosciences Indian Scholarship, University of Queensland- 50% of the tuition fees

Read| Study in Canada: From visa to scholarship, all you need to know

6 Bachelor of Medical Science Scholarship, Griffith University- AUD 10,000

7 Undergraduate Academic Excellence Scholarship, University of Technology Sydney- AUD 10,000

8 International Undergraduate Full Tuition Scholarship, University of Technology Sydney- Full Tuition

9 Postgraduate Academic Excellence Scholarship, University of Technology Sydney- AUD 5,000

BEST OF EXPRESS

LIVE
Amit Shah dares Mamata Banerjee to arrest him for saying ‘Jai Sri Ram’

BJP polling agent seen on video ‘influencing’ voters inside Faridabad booth, arrested

Mamata Banerjee's morphed picture: SC to hear tomorrow BJP leader's plea against arrest
10 International Postgraduate Coursework Full Tuition Scholarship, University of Technology Sydney- Full Tuition

11 ANU College of Business and Economics India Excellence Scholarship, Australian National University- AUD 10,000

12 ANU-Study Canberra India Scholarship, Australian National University- AUD 10,000

13 Research School of Accounting India Merit Scholarship, Australian National University-50% of international student fee

14 International Merit Scholarship, University of South Australia- 25% reduction in the student contributions (tuition fees) for the first year

MORE EXPLAINED

Simply put: The US-China trade war
15 Curtin International Scholarships Merit Scholarship, Curtin University- 25% of the first year of tuition

16 Tasmanian International Scholarship (TIS), University of Tasmania- 25% reduction in registered tuition fees

17 Triple Crown Scholarship, Queensland University of Technology- 25% of tuition fees

18 QUT International College Pathway Scholarship, Queensland University of Technology-25% of the tuition fees for your first semester of Diploma or Foundation program

19 Swinburne International Excellence Undergraduate Scholarship, Swinburne University of Technology- Up to AUD 38,000

20 RMIT International Excellence Scholarship, RMIT University- 20% tuition fee reduction

Note: All amounts are mentioned in Australian Dollars, or AUD. 1 AUD = INR 49.27

Melbourne International Undergraduate Scholarship is open to high performing international students entering The University of Melbourne. There are approximately 50 of these scholarships which are applicable across all study areas.

Educational institution: The University of Melbourne
Award: Up to AUD 56,000

Dr. Abdul Kalam International Postgraduate Scholarship is available to those seeking admission to University of Sydney for a Masters programme in the faculty of engineering and IT.

Educational institution: University of Sydney
Award: 50 per cent of the tuition fees
Monash International Merit Scholarship is open for international students based on their academic achievement. Students are also evaluated on their scholarship application statement and their possibility of being an ambassador for Monash University.

Educational institution: Monash University
Award: AUD 10,000

Information Technology International Merit Scholarship is open for international students based on their academic achievement. For those who wish to retain the scholarship, a credit average (60 per cent or above) must be maintained each semester.

Educational institution: Monash University
Award: AUD 6,000

School of Chemistry & Molecular Biosciences Indian Scholarship is open to only for Indian students studying postgraduate coursework programs administered by the School of Chemistry & Molecular Biosciences at The University of Queensland. A total of four scholarships are awarded each year.

Educational institution: The University of Queensland
Award: 50 per cent of the tuition fees

Bachelor of Medical Science Scholarship is open to academically high-performing students applying for the Bachelor of Medical Science program at Griffith University. It holds an award value of $10,000 in total.

Educational institution: Griffith University
Award: AUD 10,000

Undergraduate Academic Excellence Scholarship at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) is open to international students commencing studies in a UTS degree full-time on-campus.

Educational institution: University of Technology Sydney
Award: AUD 10,000

International Undergraduate Full Tuition Scholarship at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) is open to the highest ranked international applicants on the basis of outstanding academic performance. In case multiple applicants are tied with the same results, the following question will help finalise the scholarships winners – How do you intend to use your UTS degree to make a positive contribution to the community?

Educational institution: University of Technology Sydney
Award: Full tuition fees

Postgraduate Academic Excellence Scholarship at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) is open to commencing international students enrolling in a postgraduate coursework program at UTS who are also high performers in the academic field.

Educational institution: University of Technology Sydney
Award: AUD 5,000

International Postgraduate Coursework Full Tuition Scholarship at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) is open to commencing international students enrolling in a postgraduate coursework program at UTS with an excellent academic background.

Educational institution: University of Technology Sydney
Award: Full tuition fees

ANU College of Business and Economics India Excellence Scholarship is open to international students who have made an application for admission to an undergraduate or postgraduate coursework program at the ANU College of Business and Economics and have achieved at an outstanding level in their final years of schooling as determined by the CBE academic panel.

Educational institution: Australian National University
Award: AUD 10,000

ANU-Study Canberra India Scholarship is a highly competitive award that is open to successful international applicants who have performed exceptionally in their final years of schooling or university studies in India.

Educational institution: Australian National University
Award: AUD 10,000

Research School of Accounting India Merit Scholarship is to bring in international students from India who have a past record of academic excellence.

Educational institution: Australian National University
Award: 50 per cent of international student fee

International Merit Scholarship is open to prospective international students who are eligible to study in Australia and have an excellent academic record.

Educational institution: University of South Australia
Award: 25 per cent reduction in the student contributions (tuition fees) for the first year

Curtin International Scholarships – Merit Scholarship is open for international students who are commencing studies at Curtin’s Western Australia campuses. The winners of the scholarship will have 25 per cent of their first year of tuition paid for.

Educational institution: Curtin University
Award: 25 per cent of the first year of tuition

Tasmanian International Scholarship (TIS) to commencing international students. Students have to submit their International student application in order to get automatically assessed for the scholarship.

Educational institution: University of Tasmania
Award: 25 per cent reduction in registered tuition fees

Triple Crown Scholarship: In order to be eligible for the Triple Crown Scholarship by Queensland University of Technology, the applicant must have completed a qualifying course with the desired results, should meet the minimum English language entry requirements for the degree program, and should have applied for or have been accepted into Bachelor of Business/Bachelor of Business – International/Master of Business/Master of Business.

Educational institution: Queensland University of Technology
Award: 25 per cent of tuition fees

QUT International College Pathway Scholarship is open to international students who have an offer letter from Queensland University of Technology in Diploma in Creative Industries/Diploma in Health Science/Diploma in Business/Diploma in Engineering/Diploma in Information Technology/Standard Foundation/Extended Foundation, besides the other country-specific eligibility criteria.

Educational institution: Queensland University of Technology
Award: 25 per cent of the tuition fees for your first semester

Swinburne International Excellence Undergraduate Scholarship is open to international students looking to pursue any bachelor degree at Swinburne University of Technology (Bachelor of Aviation and Piloting, and the Bachelor of Aviation and Piloting/Bachelor of Business double degree are not included).

Educational institution: Swinburne University of Technology
Award: Up to AUD 38,000

EXPRESS OPINION
View From The Neighbourhood: Leniency in Lanka
Forty Years Ago, May 13, 1979: CPI vs communalism
By Express News Service
RMIT International Excellence Scholarship is open to international students with excellent academic background (overall 70 per cent or equivalent in their last completed qualification). The financial assistance is provided to a total of 36 exceptional international students starting an undergraduate or postgraduate course at the university.

