Manish Sisodia says financial irregularities found during audit of private school in south Delhi

Manish Sisodia says financial irregularities found during audit of private school in south Delhi
By: PTI | Published: May 11, 2019 10:43:59 PM
The school has charged a surplus of Rs 2.09 crore for the 2018-19 session and we have ordered that the extra money be refunded to parents or adjusted in the fees that will be charged ahead, Sisodia said.
Manish Sisodia, financial irregularity, audit of private school, south Delhi, financial irregularities, delhi private schools, Panchsheel Enclave, education news
Manish Sisodia says financial irregularities found during audit of private school in south Delhi
Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Saturday said severe financial irregularities were found during the audit of a private school in south Delhi. Sisodia, who is also the education minister, said the private school, in question, has raised its fees, development charges and annual charges by 10 to 15 per cent without informing or taking permission from the government.

The Delhi government had ordered an audit of seven years of the school’s financial reords after receiving complaints from parents, he said. “Many things came out during the audit. The school has a surplus of Rs 30.85 crore and despite this, it are not paying teachers according to the Seventh Pay Commission,” he said.

The school has charged a surplus of Rs 2.09 crore for the 2018-19 session and we have ordered that the extra money be refunded to parents or adjusted in the fees that will be charged ahead, Sisodia said. He also said the school spent close to Rs 14.5 crore on buying a commercial plot in 2011 at Panchsheel Enclave and then constructing a building there. He said the rent from the building goes to the parent body which established the school.

“They cannot be using the school fees for building a commercial property as it a violation of rules,” Sisodia said. He also said an international school was opened on the same land. “It was said that a new building is being constructed since their building was old but a new building cannot be constructed with the money generated from school fees. However, the new building is of an international school and their teachers are getting salaries form the money being paid by the students of the old school. “The fees paid by the students of the international school is going to another account,” Sisodia added.

Citing the Supreme Court appointed Duggal Committee’s recommendations, he said a school can charge only registration fees, tuition fees and annual charges. “If they are providing any extra facilities, the fees is charged only from those students who are availing it. However, the school has been charging the students for swimming, skating, etc. In the name of orientation classes for parents, they are being being charged Rs 50,000 for an hour-long lecture,” Sisodia said. He also alleged that the school had collected Rs 3.25 crore as caution money and the government has ordered that this amount be refunded to parents. No immediate reaction was available from the school authorities.

TS EAMCET results 2019: Master question papers, preliminary keys now available at eamcet.tsche.ac.in
TS EAMCET results 2019: The Master Question Papers & Preliminary Keys along with the Candidate Response Sheets for the Telangana State EAMCET has been released by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad at eamcet.tsche.ac.in. Candidates who appeared for the same can visit the official website of the same to check now. The University has also activated the ‘Objections on Preliminary Keys’ link on the website for the candidates to raise objections (if any).

EAMCET stands for Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test and it is conducted annually by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad on behalf of TSCHE for admission to various professional courses that are offered by University/ Private Colleges in the state of Telangana.

According to a Press release that has been released on the website –

“The candidates’ Response Sheets can be downloaded by submitting their credentials (Hall Ticket number, Registration number and Date of Birth). The Master Question Papers of all the sessions and their respective Preliminary Keys for TS EAMCET 2019 are hosted at the Official website: https://eamcet.tsche.ac.in on 10-05-2019 and are available for download. The last date for online submission of objections (If any) through official website is 13-05-2019 (Monday), 5.00PM.

Candidates are advised to read the Guidelines/Instructions given in the website before submitting objections through online mode. ”

Candidates need to know that the results for the exam will be released soon on the official website. For more details candidates can visit the official website of TS EAMCET to submit their objection and check other details.
NIRF 2019: Can NIRF shake up the B-school world?
Rajiv R Thakur

Anxiety and excitement surrounded the recent release of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2019, the fourth on higher education institutions since 2016. NIRF results show that barring a few institutions that have established credentials, the rest need to focus on creating value through relevant curriculum, good teaching-learning process, rich intellectual pool with good research, and investing in resources, while keeping students at the centre of the entire process. Ironically, the priority of many institutions in the past decade has been on creating hollow branding to attract students. This trend, in part, has been encouraged by the spurt of private ranking agencies.

In the management education category, IIM Ahmedabad got dethroned from the first place it had secured in NIRF 2018, by IIM Bangalore. Among the top 10, there are six IIMs and three IITs, with XLRI Jamshedpur as the only private institute.

NIRF has evolved as an objective measure over the years. In the management education category, it incorporates in its ranking methodology the parameters of Teaching, Learning & Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RPP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI), and Perception. These parameters are quite different from those of other ranking agencies that have numerous categories under each stream, unlike NIRF where every type of institution is clubbed under one stream only.

NIRF 2019 ranking of 75 business schools clearly brings out three clusters. First, the top three IIMs (Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Calcutta, with overall scores of 81.34, 80.61 and 79.05, respectively) that have a narrow score range and are tipped for high order competition across parameters with global aspirations. The second cluster can be considered as all other IIMs and a few private business schools in the rank band of 4-31, where the scores lie between 50 and 70 (there is a wide variation), and these institutes need to focus on RPP, Perception, TLR, GO and OI, in that sequence, indicating the order of their priority for future efforts. The third cluster can be identified as that of private business schools, both autonomous and private university-run, which fall below the 30th rank and their score range is 40-50 (the score differences between these schools are in decimals). This cluster typically characterises low RPP, low Perception, relatively low TLR, GO and OI. At the same time, it’s astonishing that some of the institutions from the above-mentioned third and second cluster find place amongst the list of top business schools ranked by other ranking bodies, hence raising a question mark on the objectivity and neutrality of such rankings.

It is not to say the NIRF methodology is perfect. For instance, NIRF combines government-supported and private schools, institutions that have huge differences in both age and scale, and institutions that are standalone or part of a university are also clubbed together. A university-linked school or a 50-year-old institution would have its own impact on rankings as compared to a standalone or a younger institution. Similarly, too much focus on research and neglect of other parameters isn’t a tell-all about the true quality of an institution.

Aspects like the value system institutions inculcate in their students, their long-term and global intent, their best practices, internationalisation, rural immersion and industry connect are a few important elements that are missing from the NIRF parameters, and should be considered. But the moot question is: Will bottom ranked or unranked business schools in the country wake up to the NIRF standards, focusing on the core issues of value creation, or will they continue to remain on the fringe (for brand building out of nothing), addressing to the needs of certain rankings and vying for certain accreditations while remaining hollow in teaching-learning, skill development, industry readiness, placements, etc?

The author is professor, Strategy, Birla Institute of Management Technology. Views are personal.