138 tribal schools affected by Cyclone Fani: Odisha govt
The death toll in Odisha due to Cyclone Fani currently stands at 64. An official from the information department said that 138 tribal schools had been affected.
Around 138 tribal schools of Odisha have been affected due to Cyclone Fani, Sanjay Singh, secretary, Information and PR department said.

He also informed that the Tribal Museum of Bhubaneswar which was damaged due to the Cyclone has been renovated with a cost of Rs 1.9 crores.

"It is open for tourist now," Singh said on Sunday.
Housing package announced for Cyclone Fani-affected
Earlier, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced housing package for people affected due to cyclone 'Fani', stating that all families whose houses are completely or substantially damaged in the extremely severe cyclone will be sanctioned pucca houses.

"House damage assessment will begin from 15th May and will be completed within a week. In all the cyclone-affected blocks senior officers will be appointed to supervise the assessment process," Patnaik said in an official statement.
Cyclone Fani which made landfall in Puri district left a massive trail of destruction in Odisha.
Harvard University drops its first African-American faculty dean and law professor for representing Harvey Weinstein
Harvard University dropped its first African-American dean and law professor Ronald S Sullivan for representing rape-accused Harvey Weinstein as his attorney.
The Harvard University has announced that a law professor who is representing disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein will not continue as faculty dean of an undergraduate house after his term ends on June 30, bowing to months of pressure from students.

The professor, Ronald S Sullivan Jr., and his wife, Stephanie Robinson, who is a lecturer at the law school, have been the faculty deans of Winthrop House, one of Harvard's residential houses for undergraduate students, since 2009, The New York Times reported.
They were the first African-American faculty deans in Harvard's history.

Why Harvard took such a decision
On Saturday, the dean of Harvard College, Rakesh Khurana, sent an email to students and staff members at Winthrop House, informing them that he would not renew the appointments of Sullivan and Robinson as faculty deans after their terms end on June 30.

Khurana said in his email that the decision was taken due to "a number of considerations".

"Over the last few weeks, students and staff have continued to communicate concerns about the climate in Winthrop House to the college," he wrote.

"The concerns expressed have been serious and numerous. The actions that have been taken to improve the climate have been ineffective, and the noticeable lack of faculty dean presence during critical moments has further deteriorated the climate in the house. I have concluded that the situation in the house is untenable."

What did the African-American faculty deans say in response?
In response, the couple said in a statement: "We are surprised and dismayed by the action Harvard announced. We believed the discussions we were having with high-level university representatives were progressing in a positive manner but Harvard unilaterally ended those talks."

When Sullivan joined Weinstein's defence team in January, many students expressed dismay, saying that his decision to represent a person accused of abusing women disqualified the professor from serving in a role of support and mentorship to students.
Harvey Weinstein is scheduled to go to trial in June in Manhattan on rape and related charges.

Rising tensions because of the issue at Harvard's Winthrop House
As the protests continued, with graffiti aimed at Sullivan appearing on a university building, Harvard administrators said they would conduct what they called a climate review of Winthrop House.

In recent weeks, tensions have escalated, with a student sit-in and a lawsuit sparked by a clash between one of the protest leaders and two Winthrop House staff members who were seen as supporting Sullivan.
The decision not to renew the appointments of Sullivan and Robinson as faculty deans do not affect their positions at the law school where the former is the Jesse Climenko Clinical Professor of Law and the director of the Criminal Justice Institute.
Playing recreational sports may boost your college grades: Study
The study showed that apart from getting higher scores, students playing sports were also less likely to drop or fail any classes their first year and were 40 percent more likely to move onto the next year.
Participating in recreational sports in college may not only help improve grades, but can also keep students from dropping out, a study has found. Researchers from the Michigan State University (MSU) in the US found that among nearly 1,800 students, those who played sports averaged a 3.25 grade point average at the end of their first year compared to a 3.07 GPA for those who did not play.
Sports participants less likely to fail first-year classes
Those who participated in recreational sports were also less likely to drop or fail any classes their first year and were 40 percent more likely to move onto the next year, according to the study published in the Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory and Practice.

It takes 120 credit hours to graduate with a bachelor's degree, and to graduate in four years, you need a total of 30 completed credit hours each school year.

"At the end of the year, students who played sports dropped or failed a total average of six credits compared to 7.7 credits among non-playing students," said Kerri Vasold, who was at MSU at the time of the study.
Vasold said that the almost two credit-difference each year can have a big effect overall on the time it takes to graduate, and even more importantly, how much damage the pocketbook takes.
Study gives solid evidence that sports plays important part in student success
The research brings the most solid evidence to date that sports play an important role in a student's success.

For the study, students were matched based on factors including high school GPA, gender, race, socioeconomic status, if they lived on campus, and if they were a first-generation student. Then they were compared to whether they participated in sports.

According to the researchers, the sweet spot seems to be anywhere between four to seven different activities throughout the year.

Activities can range from playing a sport like ultimate frisbee a few times a month to taking an aerobics class at a fitness centre each week.