A pioneering master's degree program at MIT is about to change the way graduate students are admitted and how much they pay.

Right now, MIT selects most graduate students pretty much the same way other universities do: Students usually have to have a college degree. They have to take standardized tests, like the GRE. They must send letters of recommendation and submit their earlier grades.
Esther Duflo thinks MIT can find a better way.

"The GRE is not very informative, because no one who comes to MIT doesn't have a near-perfect GRE anyways," Duflo says.

Letters of recommendation, Duflo adds, are only useful if they come from people and universities that MIT faculty are familiar with. "So, in practice, if you come from the University of the Middle of Nowhere, we have no way to judge the quality of your application, and therefore that creates a lot of barriers."

Duflo is a co-founder of MIT's Poverty Action Lab. It measures the effectiveness of programs aimed at helping the poor, and it does so by borrowing a method used in medicine: randomized control trials.

The Poverty Action Lab, officially known as the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab, or J-PAL, is testing more than 800 programs around the world. And now it's part of a bold experiment by MIT: to allow students to take rigorous courses online for credit, and if they perform well on exams, to apply for a master's degree program on campus.

"Anybody could do that," Duflo says. "At this point, you don't need to have gone to college. For that matter, you don't need to have gone to high school."

The master's program is in data, economics and development policy. Duflo says with the knowledge gained in the program, students should be able to run their own evaluation projects. They would know that most imaginative, well-thought-out programs fail, and therefore they have to be tested in the field — and they would have the tools to do that testing.

More than 8,000 students around the world have enrolled online.

"So many countries," Duflo says. "Ten percent of the students are from China, and then there is a big group of them from India. In total, there are 182 countries represented as part of the program, even some from the U.S."

Among those U.S. students is Kathryn Saloom. She works for a Boston-based global health nonprofit named Pivot.

"We're in rural Madagascar, where health care delivery is, as you can probably imagine, really tough," Saloom says. "They have some of the lowest spending in the world in spending on health care, at about $14 per capita. And so we've kind of come in to try and strengthen the entire health system and ensure that people can access quality care where they are."

Saloom and her colleagues at Pivot are trying to create a model for universal access to quality health care in Madagascar.

Saloom took one course in the new MIT program in the spring. She is planning to take two more in the fall. She says in public health, words like "impact," "sustainability" and "scalability" are thrown around "without much evidentiary support of what we're really talking about and what we really mean.

"I'm hoping with these five online courses at MIT, and hopefully, with a master's degree, to really learn how to better bridge this gap between implementation work in the field ... the research and the policy."

Saloom wants to know if the Pivot malnutrition program is reaching the people it should. And there's another appeal: "I can take MIT accredited courses online, kind of at my own pace, at a kind of reasonable price based on my earnings," Saloom says.

Students take five online courses for free. They pay only to take the final exam for each class, from $100 to $1,000 depending on their income. Once they've completed the online courses, students can apply to the on-campus master's program. Students are admitted based on their performance in the online courses. If accepted, students would spend about six months on campus: a spring semester and a summer semester. They would be required to complete a capstone project involving a field experiment with randomized evaluation, which could be with their current employer. They would also write a master's thesis.

MIT is still figuring out how much the first group of successful graduates of the online program would have to pay if admitted to the on-campus program, but it would be based on ability to pay. MIT is trying to raise financial aid to cover the cost of attendance and living in Cambridge for the first group of students, scheduled to arrive in 2020.

Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab. We regret the error. 

This segment aired on July 11, 2017.

Claire Sheth has four children. Her oldest is about to be a sophomore at Lexington High School. But it's a conversation with her 10-year-old she recalls.

"And she said, 'Mom, my friend was talking about all of the extracurricular activities that she has, and she's got like 10 activities, and she hates all of them,' " Sheth said.
Her daughter said the girl's parents had chosen all her activities but one.

"And I said to my daughter, 'Why do you think that her parents make that choice?' And she says, 'They're just worried about her being able to get into a good college,' " Sheth said.

Get the latest news Boston is talking about sent to your inbox each day. Subscribe here.

Then there are students like Roger Wang. He doesn't have a lot of extracurriculars.

"I feel slightly at a disadvantage, but you gotta play the cards you've been been dealt with," Wang said.

Wang runs cross-country and was in the Waltham High School chess club. He's a high-achieving low-income student. He just graduated from high school and has a scholarship at Rice University. He starts this fall. When he was applying for college, he felt that he could not compete with wealthier classmates when it came to listing extracurricular activities.

"Obviously, some kids, their parents are super-wealthy and they have a lot of connections," Wang said. "You have kids go across the world to help out, or helping out their father's company."

'We Want To Change Those Messages'

"The signal that colleges tend to be sending is what's important to us is high achievement, and large numbers of achievement," said Richard Weissbourd, who wants to help both the high-achieving low-income student and the over-scheduled child.

He says the current college admissions process values the wrong things.

"It isn't whether you're an invested member of your community, or a good and decent person day to day," Weissbourd said, "and we want to change those messages, so that's why we embarked on this project with college admissions deans."

Weissbourd directs the Human Development and Psychology program at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He got more than 100 college admissions deans, including the entire Ivy League, to sign onto the project. Among the colleges' goals: to reduce pressure to achieve on high school students in communities with high-performing schools, like Lexington.

But Weissbourd explains that the project has another goal, and that's to improve access to college for low-income students.

"Right now, there are a lot of low-income kids who are working to support their families, or taking care of a younger sibling, or taking care of a sick relative," Weissbourd said. "They may be doing that 20 hours a week, but what they're doing does not count as service on their college applications. You can go to Costa Rica or Belize for a month and paint a house, and that does count for service, and that just doesn't seem fair to us. It didn't seem fair to a lot of folks, a lot of college admissions deans."

At MIT -- one of the colleges on board with the idea of transforming admissions -- the dean of admissions, Stu Schmill, says his office no longer values one kind of extracurricular activity over another.

"We know that there are a lot of students out there that have significant responsibilities at home," Schmill said. "They have to work to earn money for the family, or they have to take care of younger siblings, or there is some elder care that they are having to take care of."

On its application, MIT has reduced the number of extracurricular activities students can list to just four, and it's stopped asking them what they did in ninth grade.

Schmill explained how else MIT has changed what it tells applicants.

"We want students to take the most challenging classes that are most appropriate for them, that will allow them to grow and learn the most in the subjects that they're most interested in, but they don't need to do that in every single subject," he said.

One year into the project, the proposal has run into some obstacles. One is that many colleges don't feel they can afford to take on more low-income students, in part because they don't have big endowments.

Seeking Empathy

A chief aim of the project is to form more empathetic college students.

Sara Konrath studied college student empathy while she was a researcher at the University of Michigan. She found a decline in empathy among college students since the 1970s, and especially since 2000.

Konrath is skeptical that colleges can change competitive behavior.

"For any admissions criteria you set up, there's going to be some way to game the system, and it's one thing to look good on paper by saying you are volunteering regularly or involved in certain causes, but you can't really determine motivation based on that, so I don't know how they'd actually screen properly to make sure they're not getting kids who are just trying to game the system a bit," she said.

At Milton Academy, Rod Skinner, the director of college counseling, was part of the original group that proposed this change in college admissions. Skinner acknowledges the skepticism, but says you have to start somewhere.

"We are over-stressing the kids," Skinner said. "We are also driving them to behavior that was very self-centered and in some ways very unhealthy."

Skinner suggests high schools can decrease pressure by de-emphasizing advanced placement classes and by eliminating awards ceremonies.

The initiative has only been underway for a year, too early to say if it's working. But Skinner and the rest of the group are hopeful that they can take a whack at reforming college admissions.

This segment aired on July 7, 2017.