Education is the systematic process of improving and enhancing the hidden skill inside us by which we develop capacity to change this world at social, political and economical level.


 
Education is the medium by which we can not only improve our own life but also can establish a new world with lots of positive things that is highly required since many years. Education is a huge topic to discuss with some beneficial information, thus we are here providing you four articles with different words count having all details on education. All the essays are written in simple English language and useful for people of entire age group especially students.

Education Articles
Article on Education 1 (300 words)
Education plays an important role in human life regarding to build their personality, career and mental growth. Education is the best tool for facing any up and down situation through the whole life. We can not only improve our personal life by education but also can bring an amazing positive change in society or nation.

To provide education among people, society has declared some places as home to education like Schools and Colleges where some pattern are followed in procedural manner to offer quality education for the aspiring students. Currently government has majorly focused on the schooling system for students. It has been compulsory for children of age 6 to 14 years to get primary education from any authorized school.

In most states of India, education system is followed by 10+2+3 prototype which consist 10 years of primary (till 8th class) and secondary education (9th and 10th), 2 years of higher or senior secondary education (11th and 12th) and last 3 years of graduation from any degree college.

Apart from individual state board, CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) and ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) are two bodies that operate various schools throughout the country and monitor all the courses, subjects, syllabus and give out result till secondary and higher secondary education. Secondary education may be proved as the turning point for students as the marks obtained in class 10th decide the further stream of that student. After completing education till senior secondary (12th), students have to decide their professional career option. Degree Colleges, professional Institutes or universities are the next destination for students in manner to get professional knowledge of engineering, medical, law, MBA, aeronautical, fashion, teaching and many more academic working areas.

In recent past years, by the efforts of government or other organizations of India, people have much awareness about importance of education. Thus result of growing education rate in India can been seen by measuring the literacy rate chart of India according to census 2011, where tremendous increment is seen in comparison to the last census of 2001. In fact, Kerala state is counted as the 100 percent literate state of India.

 

Article on Education 2 (500 words)
Education is the systematic way of learning information or getting knowledge about any kind of existing living or non living things in this world. The famous president of South Africa Mr. Nelson Mandela has rightly made a sentence about the education that “Education is the most powerful weapon to change the world”. We all somehow completely accept these wordings. Education can be the life changing element for us in all prospects like:

In matter of making us earnable so that we can easily fulfil all the demand raised by our family members.
Providing us knowledge regarding any such issue that we have imagined or listened somewhere.
To make our kids manner full, gentle and decent in front of others.
To change our own point of view regarding any social issue that has influenced many people of India with negative thoughts like child labour, male female discrimination, dowry system and many more.
Importance of Education for Individual:

We cannot reserve the right of education for any individual group of people. The importance of education is same for all, especially for kids and women, it is highly essential. In present time after seeing the situation of women in India, we can say that education is the best option for them by which they can improve their life in a better way.

Government has also focused on women and child education by launching many schemes in manner to provide them proper education. “Saakshar Bharat Mission for Female Literacy” is one of the latest schemes which are launched by Government to reduce the illiteracy rate of women in India. Many other schemes are launched by government time to time for increasing the literacy rate of children and women in India. According to “Right to education act”, it has been made compulsory for all children of age 6 to 14 years to get basic education from any authorized school. Mid day meal, scholarship, reservation, free books, free uniforms, etc are the some attractive programs launched by the government to provide education to more girls and poor children.

Education in Rural Areas:

Though rate of education in rural areas has been increased in recent past years but still government could not get complete success in bringing education to those backward areas. Behind this failure many reasons can be counted, some of them are: lack of good teachers and lack of proper resources and awareness about education. Schools in rural areas are still very few in count and sometime one school between two villages thus lack of accessibility is the another reason for low literacy rate in rural areas. Available private schools in rural areas are generally not preferred by poor people due to their expensive fees, uniform and other goods. Government has now become strict towards the education in rural areas too and applying many schemes for improving the poor situation of education over there.

Conclusion:

We can surely say that education is the best saving for any particular person which he or she can use in their unstable time period of life. We have seen so many examples regarding advantages of education thus it should be fundamental right of each and every child in manner to provide them a life with health, wealth and financial security.


 
Article on Education 3(600 words)
By having education we become able to handle different situations or challenges in an easy manner along with taking objectionable things with broad minded. In fact, educated people can easily understand other people too, who have narrow thinking about some social issues of dowry system, discrimination between boy and girl or inter-cast marriages.

What is Education?

Knowledge is the priceless thing which is neither countable nor deductable, it always increases by sharing. And to get knowledge or information about any kind of person, place, things or other, society has decided some places as the home of education like Gurukul, School or College. Here, from the age of 5 till the end of life people can take valuable knowledge in terms of education which is a procedural way of getting information level by level.

In ancient time, a particular place was declared where knowledge was distributed among student, that place was called Gurukul, where students had to live for a long period of their life and get information regarding all existing things along with practical knowledge by their Guru. In present time, Gurukul is converted as school and college where teacher gives information to their students in a pre-decided way.

Modern School Education System:

Presently in India, policies of providing education to the students are decided by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) which decides and monitors all the matters regarding education in India. Majorly two boards are defined as the operator of schooling system regarding their exams, syllabus, schemes and result which are CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) and ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education). Both are followed by a number of schools present in India.

In India, schooling system can be defined as given below:

Play School: Children of age 18 months till 3 years go to play schools, where children started to learn things surrounding there in an easy manner while playing. This education is not compulsory for all students.
Prep School or Kindergarten: This section of learning is also divided into sub categories nursery, lower kindergarten (LKG) and upper kindergarten (UKG). These classes contain students of age 3 to 6 years.
Primary School: Primary schooling is further divided in two categories, lower primary and upper primary. Class 1 to 5 is considered as lower primary and class 6 to 8 is considering as upper primary.
Secondary School: This section of schooling involves classes (9 and 10) which is too important for students career as future subject or stream completely depend on the obtained marks in secondary classes.
Higher Secondary: In this section, class 11 and 12th student have to choose any particular academic course as a focal point in which they have to make their professional career.
After passing the examination of higher secondary (10+2), students are free to do graduation, diploma or other technical professional course as per their wish or qualification from any college, university or institute.

Conclusion:

Education is the only medium by which you can win this world. The great personalities till now have achieved big position in life just because of their hard work and education. Education makes us polite, humble, kind, civilized and responsible human being. An educated person can easily influence anyone by his intelligence.

 

Article on Education 4 (800 words)
Education is the only way which enables you to live your life in a proper and efficient mode. To get information about any existing thing, whether in past, present or future, you have to go through the world of education. In this modern time, education system has been too modified and systematic that is easily available and accessible by all groups of people. Education should be the highest priority for children of small age. In our country, it is mandatory under “right to education” act for children of age 6 to 14 to get primary education.

Importance of education in our life:

Education provides us knowledge regarding anything and improves our life style along with physical persona and mental strength. Educated people always behave soft, humble and kind to others. Through education, we can easily handle all ups and downs, good or bad situations coming in our future life. Education expands our mental state of thinking regarding social issues like Female Feticide, Dowry System or Women Empowerment.

Education System in India:

In India, education system is operated by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) which is responsible for all matters regarding education throughout the country and further each state has its own organization with name of State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) which decides the strategies, course, curriculum or schemes regarding education. Education is provided under two sectors public or private with two major streams which conduct their own examination in secondary (10th standard) and higher secondary (12th standard). One is Central Board of school Education (CBSE) and other is Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE). In both sectors, education is provided in (10+2+3) pattern which consist a systematic way of getting education. Here 10 years of education consist primary and secondary education with all subjects except difference in subject of mother tongue, 2 years for getting higher secondary education (with either arts or science subjects) and 3 years for bachelor degree in any stream of arts, science or commerce. After graduation students are advised to do master degree as per qualification, interest or capability. Thus we can say that majorly four levels of education are required for completion of education process, these are:

Primary Education
Secondary Education
Higher Secondary Education
Professional Education
Primary Education:

In India, primary education (also can be referred as elementary education) has been made compulsory for small age children of age 6 to 14 years, and this was announced by government under act of “right to education act” which was made to recover the poor situation of children in India who are captivated in social crime of child labour, child abuse or child exploitation. In India, level of primary education in rural areas is not so well as compared to urban areas. Due to lack of infrastructure and other facilities in government running schools, ratio of number of teachers and number of students is far differ.

In recent past years, government has majorly focused on primary education throughout the country. A program, District Education Revitalisation Program (DERP), was launched by central government to enhance the quality of primary education across the country. And the better result has also been viewed in terms of increased literacy rate in both urban and rural areas of country.

Secondary Education:

After primary education, students are required to study secondary education which is counted till class 10th and further followed by higher secondary education means class 11th and 12th. This stage of learning system prove as a turning point for the academic career of a student as marks obtained in secondary class indicate the future stream as professional career for students.

Higher secondary education:

Higher secondary education comes after secondary education means class 11th and 12th in which student have to select their interesting subjects as future academic area.

Professional Education:

The last category is professional education consist various distinguished courses of different time period like it may be graduation or bachelor degree in various streams, diploma courses, Master degree, PhD (research and training) or teaching education.

Above was the pattern of education system in India that is decided by higher authority of education department.

Literacy rate in India:

Literacy rate is the amount in percentage which shows the level of education in a particular area. 64.9% literacy is found in India according to survey of 2011 in which male literacy is 75.3% and female is 53.7% which is a huge difference that need a high attention from all side. Kerala is listed as the highest literate state in India with 94%. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Arunachal Pradesh are the lowest literate state of India.

Conclusion:

Education is the medium by which we can enhance and improve our learning system also with having a goal in life about a successful professional career. A person is always full of skill but to use that skill he/she need to be educated in proper way. Education should be the first priority for all, especially young children in manner to prove themselves by achieving something great in life.


PREVIOUS STORY
ESSAY ON GOD HELPS THOSE WHO HELP ...

NEXT STORY
ESSAY ON GLOBAL WARMING
