Career In Psychology [The Only 2019 Study Guide You Need]
Disclaimer: If you think a career in psychology is all about becoming a psychologist who helps people by saying deep philosophical “#instaquote worthy” stuff, you are about to get surprised. 

Imagine being able to get into the minds of people and to help them decipher their behavioural patterns! Imagine being able to know the exact reason behind variation in the body language of a person! Does it excite you? Let us draw the map for you to acquire the knowledge and skills required to make this possible.   
What exactly is Psychology?
Psychology is the art and science of the human mind and the functions of human mind, especially those affecting behaviour in a given circumstance. Psychology is the study of conscious and unconscious elements of the human mind such as thoughts and feelings. Psychology aims to understand the behaviours of individuals and groups through general principals and research specific cases. In all, Psychology is concerned with the complex ways and patterns in which people think, feel, behave, communicate and perceive the world. 

Sounds interesting but you are thinking will a career in psychology complement your personal goals. Right? Are you wondering if a job in this field will make you happy on a daily basis?

Hold On. Let’s dig a little deeper into the pool of career in psychology and see if its a right fit for you.

Career in Psychology
A career in psychology gives one an opportunity to change people’s lives by helping them self-discover and understand themselves better and by improving their mental condition. Apart from helping people, it also allows one to add to humanity through research work and help broaden the understanding of students by teaching this field of study. 

Pros of a Career in Psychology
Bright job outlook: With a large population of the world fighting wars with their own minds, the need for psychology experts is on a rise. Nowadays, be it a school or a hospital- every organisation employs psychologists, counsellors and other professionals in this field.
High earning potential: As you keep gaining experience, the value pf your skills keeps on increasing, making career in psychology a highly promising career with high earning potential.
Satisfaction of helping others: Psychology is one of the few fields that provides one the opportunity to directly help the consumers. No matter how much you earn, as a career in psychology, you earn only by helping others feel better. What can be more satisfying than this? 
Multiple areas of specialisation: Based on your interests and preferences, you can choose from amongst a wide range of specialisation choices that come with a career in psychology.   
Cons of a Career in Psychology
Extensive Education and Training: When you choose to mould a career in psychology, you are signing up for directly interacting with people who are seeking help. This calls for high responsibility which needs to be backed up by extensive education and training.
It can get stressful and draining: Well, lets face it- while helping people fight their internal wars and making them feel better is an amazing idea, constantly being involved in it can sometimes get stressful and draining.
Top Universities to study Psychology:
Stanford University
Ranked as one world’s top universities, Stanford University was established in 1891. It consists of 40 undergraduate and postgraduate academic departments and 4 professional schools. The Department of Psychology at Stanford University is dedicated towards training scientists who will work to advance theory and to create knowledge that helps us address real-world problems.

University College London
A public research university located in London, United Kingdom, University College London (UCL) is a constituent college of the federal University of London. Psychology at University College London involves the largest number of researchers in the UK, research across various aspects of the field, teaching at both undergraduate and postgraduate level, and leadership in the development of psychology as a profession.

Princeton University
An Ivy League research university, Princeton University is the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States. The graduate program at Princeton University offers specialization in diverse areas, including cognitive neuroscience, perception and cognition, developmental psychology, behavioral economics, language, learning and memory, the psychology of inequality,  social psychology, systems neuroscience and social neuroscience. Interdisciplinary programs leading to joint degrees in psychology and neuroscience or psychology and social policy are also offered.

University of Chicago
Founded in 1890, the university of Chicago is composed of an undergraduate college, various graduate programs and interdisciplinary committees organized into five academic research divisions and seven professional schools. Since its founding in 1893, the Department of Psychology at University of Chicago has been known for scientific research and scholarship that cuts across traditional disciplinary boundaries. Today, this broad and integrative vision of psychological science is reflected in the diversity of laboratories and collaborations within the Department, as well as research initiatives that connect psychology to other areas of the University and beyond.

University of Pennsylvania
Another private Ivy League research university, University of Pennsylvania was founded in 1740. The university has four undergraduate schools which provide a combined 99 undergraduate majors[ in the engineering, humanities, business, and natural sciences, as well twelve graduate and professional schools. The Department of Psychology at the University of Pennsylvania is the oldest continuously functioning psychology department in North America.

Duke University
Founded in 1838, Duke University is a private research university in North Carolina. Admission to Duke is defined by U.S. News & World Report as “most selective.” Duke’s Department of Psychology and Neuroscience has five graduate training areas: Clinical Psychology, Cognition and Cognitive Neuroscience, Developmental Psychology, Social Psychology and Systems and Integrative Neuroscience.

Harvard University
We know this university needs no introduction and you already know it is United States’ oldest institution of higher learning and has produced eminent  leaders including Barack Obama, Mark Elliot Zuckerberg, Bill Gates and many more. The field of Psychology first emerged at Harvard in the late 1800’s under the scholarship of William James, and ever since then Harvard has been at the forefront of the field. The Graduate Program in Psychology currently has around 65 graduate students who are trained in four major research programs:  Developmental Psychology; Cognition, Brain, & Behavior; Clinical Science and Social Psychology.

London School of Economics and Political Science
Founded in 1895, the London School of Economics, officially The London School of Economics and Political Science is a public research university located in London, United Kingdom. Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science at London School of Economics and Political Science is a growing community of researchers, intellectuals, and students who investigate the human mind and behaviour in a societal context. The  department conducts cutting-edge psychological and behavioural research that is both based in and applied to the real world.

Career Paths
Studying psychology gives you the chance to have one feet on the land of science and the other in the land of land of science, giving you a wide range of opportunities to choose from. A career in psychology opens the doors for becoming a psychologist, therapist, counsellor and a social worker.

Psychologist
A psychologist is someone who studies the human mind and human emotions and behaviour, and how different situations have an effect on people.

Different types of Psychologists are:

Airforce Psychologist
Applied Psychologist
Army Psychologist
Biogerontologist
Child Psychologist
Clinical Psychologist
Cognitive Neuroscientist
Cognitive Psychologist
Community Psychologist
Comparative Psychologist
Consumer Psychologist
Counseling Psychologist
Criminal Psychologist
Cultural Psychologist
Developmental Psychologist
Educational Psychologist
Engineering Psychologist
Environmental Psychologist
Experimental Psychologist
Forensic Psychologist
Geriatric Psychologist
Gerontologist
Geropsychologist
Health Psychologist
Media Psychologist
Military Psychologist
Navy Psychologist
Neurologist
Neuropathologist
Neuropsychologist
Organizational-Industrial Psychologist
Personnel Psychologist
Physiatrist
Police Psychologist
Positive Psychologist
Psychiatrist
Psychological Anthropologist
Psychometrician
Rehabilitation Psychologist
School Psychologist
Social Gerontologist
Social Psychologist
Spiritual Psychologist
Sports Psychologist
Transpersonal Psychologist
2. Therapist

A therapist is someone whose job is to treat a particular type of mental or physical illness or disability, usually with a particular type of therapy.

Different types of Therapists:

Art Therapist
Cognitive Behavioral Therapist
Dance / Movement Therapist
Exercise Therapist
Existential Therapist
Life Coach
Marriage Family Therapist
Musical Therapist
Occupational Therapist
Physical Therapist
Psychiatric Nurse
Psychotherapist
Sex Therapist
Speech Pathologist
Transpersonal Therapist
3. Counsellor

A counsellor is a person trained to give guidance on personal or psychological problems.

Types of Counsellors:

Army Mental Health Specialist
Career Counselor
Child Abuse Counselor
Child/Pediatric Counselor
Community Mental Health Counselor
Couples Counselor
Crisis Intervention Specialist
Depression Counselor
Domestic Violence Counselor
Geriatric Counselor
Grief Counselor
Licensed Professional Counselor
Marriage & Family Counselor
Mental Health Counselor
Multi Cultural Counselor
Pastoral Counselor
Rehabilitation Counselor
School Counselor
Spiritual Counselor
Substance Counselor
Suicide Intervention Counselor
Transformational Counselor
Veterans Counselor
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
4. Social Worker

A social worker is a person in the profession of helping individuals, families, groups and communities to enhance their individual and collective well-being.

Types of social workers:

Addiction Social Worker
Child/Pediatric Social Worker
Clinical Social Worker
Community Social Worker
Corrections Social Worker
Disability Policy Worker
Family Social Worker
Geriatric Social Worker
Hospice & Palliative Social Worker
Mental Health Social Worker
Military Social Worker
Parole Officer
Probation Officer
Psychiatric Social Worker
Public Health Social Worker
School Social Worker
Substance Abuse Social Worker
Victim Advocate
Must-Read Psychology Books:
Mindfullness: A Practical Guide to Finding Peace In a Frantic World by Mark Williams and Danny Penman
The Happiness Hypothesis by Jonathan Heidt
Influence: The Psychology Of Persuasion by Robert B. Cialdini
Outliers: The Story Of Success by Malcolm Gladwell
Civilization and Its Discontents by Sigmund Freud
Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman
Flow: The Psychology Of Happiness by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
Authentic Happiness by Martin Seligman
Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ by Daniel Goleman
David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits and the Art Of Battling Giants by Malcolm Gladwell
Free Online Psychology Courses:
Introduction to Psychology, Open Yale Courses
The Science of Everyday Thinking, edX
Psychology – Perceiving the World Around You, Alison 
How the Brain Works, edX
Critical Social Psychology, The Open University
Social Psychology, MIT OpenCourseWare
Mindfulness and Resilience to Stress at Work, edX
Clinical Psychology, Learn Out Loud
Applied Psychology – Understanding Consumer Attitudes, Alison
Foundations of Positive Psychology Specialization, Coursera
Free Blogs on Psychology:
PsyBlog
Mind Hacks
The Last Psychiatrist
PsychCentral
Research Digest
Neuromarketing by Roger Dooley 
Psychology – Reddit
BrainBlogger
Psychology Today
Psychology Corner
What can you do today?
If you are reading this, it is possible that you are overwhelmed with information and brimming with zest to shape your career in psychology. We would suggest that its the right time for you to check out Leverage Edu and take the first step towards your awesome career.
