What is wrong with the Indian education system?
The 350+ answers are consolidated to the best possible extent

The main types of answers appear to be:

1) Half the country does not even have access to proper education, and only a small fraction can go to university.
   - Lack of quality primary education for the poor
   - Limited seats in Universities

2) Everything is about rote memorization, leading to behaviour which encourages cramming and forgetting rather than life long learning.

3) Standardized testing determines everything, and aptitude of students is not recognized outside this format

4) Lack of diversity in the subjects you can take in college (e.g. can't double major in Math and German like you can in the USA)

5) Extreme pressure from parents / society to use education for financial security = CSE degrees for programming jobs or medicine. Societal pressure to get into the "right schools", not only for the education aspect but to ensure good job/ marriage prospects, in general success in life. Little incentive to take risks and follow own interests or encourage creativity. Generally conformist culture, which makes educational achievement the only thing that matters to social standing.

6) Additional extreme pressure due to limited seats resulting in very intense competition between students.

7) Reservation system 

8) Management quota system What is management quota? - Yahoo Answers

9) Government control of education/ Government Monopoly in education. 

10) Right to Education Act. 

11) Education sector is closed to for-profit organizations.

12) Few opportunities and flexibility to cross over into different streams of education.
He is Abhimanyu Sadasivan.

Photo Source: Mother of teenager who hanged himself urges others to pay heed to children’s well-being | The National

Abhimanyu was a 16-year old student in 11th grade and was found dead on the terrace of his family’s apartment in March, 2014. He committed suicide in the midst of his exams and left a suicide note in his chemistry exam sheet. On it, was written,

"The CBSE system is based on mugging. Education should be about understanding and applying your knowledge. My death should be a lesson and a reason for the system to change.”

Source: Parents of suicide teenager get to see son’s final words on chemistry exam paper | The National

Apparently, he had a pretty high IQ. He liked reading and writing a lot.

He was not alone. There was 17-yr old Kriti Tripathi, a student at one of the Kota's coaching centers. She jumped to her death from a five-storey building in Kota in April this year. Though she had comfortably cleared the IIT entrance exams, she complained that studies in these centers subjected the students to unbearable stress and depression in her suicide note.

"Please Government of India HRD do something about these coaching institutes. They suck and should be shut down as soon as possible," she wrote.

Source: ‘Shut coaching centres, they suck’: Kota student’s suicide letter

And there were more. There was 21-yr old Jitesh from Haryana, a student of chemical engineering at IIT-B. He committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance from the institute lab in May last year as he was depressed due to his poor academic performance. The suicide note stated that he regretted passing JEE exam to make it to IIT. There were 15-yr old Radha and Pragati from MP, who ended their life March this year by hanging from the ceiling of their rooms, for being under stress due to exams and unable to secure first rank in the examination.

Source: ‘Depressed’ over poor grades, IIT Bombay student kills self - Times of India, 2 teens commit suicide over exam stress in MP

The disturbing accounts are numerous. But all point to the same thing: Indian education system forces its pupils to live a pressure-filled life, demanding excellence in the form of an external reward: MARKS. This demand starts right from the beginning of school life, and decides the fate of a person- to live a qualified life (as admission to colleges is based on these MARKS cut-off), as well as a dignified life (as everyone acknowledges the merits of being a top-scorer). This system emphasizes children’s report cards, instead of making them understand and apply what they are learning. And most importantly, it never asks them if they are satisfied with what they are learning in school. Never highlighting inner growth and development.

This is what is wrong with the Indian education system.

1.	A pressure-filled, non-relaxing lifestyle.

Non-relaxing lifestyle


"Enough studies, now go play today!" "Take some time out daily to dance, that's what you like!"

These kids never hear these sentences. All they hear is "now go study." If these students were allowed to relax daily, perhaps they would have developed a healthy resistance against the pressures of life. But no. These young people were instead pushed beyond their limits to achieve an always-going-after-marks lifestyle.

2.	Making report cards the supreme focus in life.

Focus on Report cards


“What do you think of your studies?” “What do you make of these marks?”

These questions are never asked of these students. Rather what they are asked is, “Did you get the highest marks on your report card?” The kids who took the extreme step probably had an inquiring mind and all they wanted was to push the envelope of their thinking. Alas! “What do you think?” was never asked of them.

3.	Making self-worth dependent on external rewards: marks.

Self-worth dependent on marks


"You are only worthy if you get the highest marks."

A child who is raised on this piece of wisdom will always feel unworthy whenever he scores less than the topmost. Self-worth comes from self, not from marks. And no one can always be on the top; leaving them with a sense of unworthiness for a lifetime.

For those wondering about my ~22k upvoted answer Anshul Agarwal's answer to What is it that we as Indians are collectively doing wrong? being collapsed, here is what I did about it Anshul Agarwal's answer to Would you share some of your own creative work with us?. Plz upvote the collapsed answer if you have ever been through a collapse. Hopefully that will instill some good sense in the moderators.

Disclaimer: All the above illustrations are created by me.

More on everything that’s wrong with India and its systems can be read here and here
JEE advanced 2017 results were declared on 11/6/2017.

The qualifying marks have been decided as :

General:128

OBC: 115

SC/ST: 64

My best friend scored 105 and did not even get a rank.

I scored 118 and did not get a rank.

I read on quora, somebody scored 122 and did not get a rank.

Is a student scoring 105 or 118 or 122, less deserving than somebody scoring 64?

You got the point, right? The same old fuss about the reservation system… We know, we know .

But no. This isn't the same old fuss, neither is this a very new idea.

Consider this:

X doesn't have an economically stable family background. His parents could hardly afford his school fee. He prepares for 2 years to get into the most reputed engineering college of the country, entirely through self study. Manages to score 127. Category: general.

Y's father owns a big business in town. Y attended the best school in the city, got enrolled in the best coaching centre, bunked all the classes, but was an okayish kind of student. His father gifted him a BMW on his birthday. Scores 64 marks in JEE advanced. Category: ST.

Is Y more deserving than X?

Does Y need special fee concession more than X?

I know the answer to these questions is a big no.

I do agree that people belonging to these sections of the society needed special grants because they were actually unprivileged. But, they were. They are not now. Reservation should be based on one's economic condition, not on his caste.

I say this, because I actually have seen students like Y. Students who publically say that they need not study because they belong to the SC/ST category and they will for sure get admission in a reputed institute.

Our country has reached the state, where people are fighting for them being labeled as underprivileged, which is the exact opposite of what was going on 50 years ago.

The law says, “ do not discriminate against anybody, on the basis of caste, creed, race or colour.” I Ask, “ what are you yourself doing?”

P.S.: a friend of mine belongs to the OBC category. She was very much against the reservation system till class 11th. She scored 67 marks in mains. The OBC cutoff being 49, she cleared it. Now, she was really thankful to the reservation system.

Edit: read this:

80 PAGES. 8 HOURS. PHYSICS ASSIGNMENT.

I will not discuss the substantial issues of education system which you guys already know. Like:

Reservation system.
Limited seats in IITs.
Management quota, right to education and many more.
I noticed this new level of issue today at 11 P.M. when one of my mates called me…

“Hey! Gaurav, I am very sure you must have completed assignments and practical work? Today we have to submit it and it’s the last day of submission.”

Me: WTF! How that assignment would get completed in few hours? It would take at least a month.

I ran to the Gupta shop (hostel’s stationary shop). Bought pages, graphs, etc.

It took me almost 3 hours to write 40 pages. I was left with 40 more pages and my hands froze. They refused to work again.

I called my girlfriend.

Me: Hey! How’ve you been? Will you write my assignment? Only 20 pages. I will WhatsApp you the assignments.

She: Fuck off. *beep, beep, beep*

Me: I can do it (crying inside)!

I slept. Alarm rang at 7 A.M.

I wrote 10 more pages.


My roommate felt pity for me. He completed my remaining assignments.

Assignment submissions over. Practicals files completed.


Done!

What I learned from these assignments?

Actually, nothing.

I just copied assignments and the teachers didn’t gave a shit about it.


This is the major problem of our education, where:

PLACEMENTS > LEARNING.

CGPA > LEARNING.

In India, copying is considerd to be cool. In today’s society and family structure, students are more likely to cheat, as self-interest has taken precedence over morality for most people.

To get rid of cheating and copying habits, the teachers and parents cannot do too much. Students themselves should realise how bad cheating is, then it will be definitely a lesson for lifetime.