What is your review of Thapar University(Patiala)?
In another question I wrote this review which seemed a little negative to me so I have added a few positive points about Thapar at the end of previous review

Thapar is a sinking titanic with its name at large.
Thapar university is one fine university with a reputation of any other great college in the country but things are changing swiftly. The ranking of students enrolled is going down every year. There is severe drug problem in the university which the administration is trying to fight with all ferociousness. The problem comes when they hamper with your personal life like the the timings of entry and exit on the main gate and many more. 
Also it is a different world for different people in different branches.
For some in computer science it was like floating in dead sea ( with many perks such as attendance and teachers being cooperative and understanding) while in the other branches this may not be the case. 
Some of the teachers get personal and try their best to get you to repeat the exams. Some will fail you even if you have 74.9% attendance. ( required is 75)Food in the hostel mess ( all of them ) is terrible and compulsory to pay whether you don’t wanna ever eat there or eat there everyday . AC rooms were limited during my time can’t say about now . Classrooms were not air conditioned during my time and for a college with such a large fees I believe that should be mandatory. 
The whole administration department works like it is a sarkari office ( for eg. you need a refund for something and you have arranged all bank slips the person sitting there will say “ das din baad aana abhi toh sahab nahi hai “ and so on.
Even though Thapar is still considered reputed and placements for Computer Science are going off the charts it is still a sinking ship. The name they have built cannot be destroyed in the few past bad years of the college but they are doing their best .

Even after all this it is not so that I didn’t enjoy my time here or that there weren’t people who excelled in any field of life.
We have people placed in all the great companies of this countries and abroad. We have some of the best synthetic courts in any engineering college. The DEAN Manik Kumar and many more teachers are some teachers who are looked up by most of the students. Sport facilities are amazing for all major sports. It still has amazing greenery even though they cut down the jungles during my last days. Placements as mentioned above are not only for computer science students but yes Thapar is doing extremely well in placements. They have a tie up now with a foreign university which has forced them to greatly upgrade their labs.

And this would be the complete review of Thapar University (BY ME)
PS: All top universities of the country ( for engineering) have a drug problem but none are fighting to finish it more than Teachers of Thapar
Thapar university is one of the most prestigious universities of North India. There was a time when getting into Thapar university was a big achievement and a dream for students but with ever increasing student intake and constantly hiking academic fees, people’s opinion about Thapar has changed alot. Within couple of years, the intake has been increased by almost 50%. The administration is trying very hard to keep up the standard of university by Student Exchange Program with international universities like TCD and UNSW. Thapar university offers a wide variety of streams to choose from based on your interests but the quality of education and the quality of crowd in thapar university is degrading. Most of the Professors will come to class and just read out the content on slides. Most of the tutorial classes are taken by Phd or M.Tech students and they are not able to clear student’s doubts most of the times. They just come to the class, distribute tut sheets and either ask you to do it by yourself and ask for doubt if any OR they already got the solutions which they write on whiteboards. Talking about extra-curricular activities, Thapar has many societies which a student may join based on their interests. Everyday one thing or the other is going on in the university. Hostels are pretty amazing and sports facilities are also great.

To sum up, i would say that as far as quality of education and placement (thinking of 2020 bcz intake increased in 2016) are concerned, Thapar university is not as it was before. Its been on downside. While for sports environment, extra-curricular activities and other facilities, Thapar university is still one of the best.

Note : This is entirely my opinion and what i feel being the student of Thapar. Others may have their own opinion.

Thank you.

Let me tell you a small incident. I was submitting my hostel fees with a friend of mine at SBOP,Thapar University branch when a guy approached us for some talk. We were wearing our college t-shirts having Thapar University written on back and TU logo on front. He offered us a good amount of money for our Thapar t-shirt. Such is the craze and respect in people for Thapar in Punjab. It doesn't have the status of IIT but it is greater than any college in Punjab(be it IIT Ropar) if we go by achievements and other standards. People may not know about it but it is surely one of the finest institutions in India.Faculty, administration, placements, alumini relations and infrastructure are the factors where Thapar University easily surpasses most of the engineering institutes in North India.

And the premium factor of Placements is the prime reason of its success. It has a very good placement cell with superb alumini relations which helps in providing good placements and internships to its students. Entrepreneurship and research are also encouraged along with academics and Thapar University is leading a very good example of how to produce good engineers, entrepreneurs and leaders.
When someone wants to join a university or a college,he/she checks the rank,highest package,cut offs etc.I did the same thing and this tradition continues!
I have spent 2years in Thapar...And yes from my experience I can tell you a lot of things!
Pro:
Infinite events that happen here help in improving organising skills,help in personality development...
Lots of societies..
Placements are good

Cons:
Lack of Thapar Culture..Works more like a school
Lack of college support in things like entrepreneurship
75% compulsory attendance and 8am-5pm classes
_------------_-----------------_------------
Review--
The university is great with strong alumni association
+the new director is very supportive!
The new branches that have come up give specialisation in the fields catering to the industry needs.You wont find branches like Machine Learning and Gaming n Animation anywhere else.
TU has also come up with minor courses in finance,business administration etc.
The reputation of the university is also great!
It is comparable to many NITs if not better than some of them
Once upon a time, Thapar use to be a great university. It was one of the TOP engineering colleges in INDIA. But today, this college has sunk so low that i would like to call it a ‘garbage college’. The reasons why i call it garbage, is as follows.

1) The quality of students at Thapar is very low (not mediocre but very inferior). This is due to 50% quota for Punjab state students plus the enormous increase in the number of seats. This has resulted in very low cut-offs. Last year (2018), the cut-off rank for Computer Engg for Punjab state students was 160,000 rank in JEE mains. For Electrical Engg, it was 300,000 rank.

A student with a rank of 300,000 is hardly even fit for engineering but now he can get admission to the great college like Thapar. What a downfall!! So, basically, you get, what you put in.

Garbage in = Garbage out;

2) Thapar has an intake for 1254 seats for IT related branches (CSE+COE+ Computer and business systems + their new CSE at Derabassi etc.) This is very big batch size. There is no way you can maintain a good teaching standard, facilities, placements etc for such a large number of students. It seems more like a factory for producing Engineering students.

3) Then there is drug problem in Punjab. Though this is no fault of Thapar university, but being in Punjab, Thapar is also afflicted by this drug menace. Which parent will feel comfortable to send his 18 yr old kid to such an environment.

So in conclusion, Thapar is no longer the college, it once used to be. It is only a matter of time when people and companies will find out this.
The are number of things that a ranking agency takes into account like

Placements
Infrastructure
Reputation
Quality of academic input.
Thapar university fares extremely well in the above parameters and you can come to know about this from the fact that it has always been under 25 rank in list of top colleges in India(first 7 to 8 places going to iits) and under 5 in top private universities. So in not going to tell much about them.

Note. If a college authority is smart enough they can emphasize or manipulate the above factors to get good grading/ ranking.

Now let's come to the factors that these ranking agencies do not take into account.

Other cultural/ technical growth opportunities in university.
Thapar university organises the biggest technical fest Aranya in North India and of you are interest and keen it's great learning opportunity as you get to interact with other college students.
Participate in competitions and Workshops etc.
The ambiance college.
Ambiance is just great, talk about the crowd, there are students from entire India giving you chance to see and learn many new things.
College is constantly working on improving its infrastructure.
Course curriculum
It has the best and most well equipped labs and workshop.
How many colleges can boast about world class CNC machines and modern manufacturing process which Thapar university has in its Workshops.
The curriculum gets modified based on industry feed back.
Alumni base of college.
There is an extremely strong alumni base of college and more importantly a base which has some say and standing in industries because of the product of college.
Quality of placements​ etc.
Every year yahoo, amazon, google, Flipkart, delloite etc visit the college and these are companies you cannot call via links/by throwing away some money. They come every year only because they are happy with the output of the college.
If you are good about 50% of the eligible graduates are able to secure 2 jobs before you graduate from college.
So now I hope you can make a well educated decision and I hope whatever or whichever college you choose worksout best for you
ACADEMICS & FACULTY: Class timings are from 8am to 5pm with an average lunch break of 2 hours. University evaluates on regular basis through assignments, class tests and discussions. Mainly written exams are two in a semester that are Mid Semester Test(MST), &End Semester Test(EST). In which MST is approximately within 3 months of start of semester& EST is at the end of semester.The quality of teaching is very good. Teachers are regular in classes .They are very practicle .They teaches us through presentations and live models and also uses white boards to teach us.We have regular practical classes to have practical experience. Your overall experience at Thapar University, Patiala will be very fantastic.

OTHER POINTS

Excellent teaching quality no doubt. My experience at college is everyday learning anew whether it is academic or developing social network.
There are a lot of opportunities for those who desire to succeed whether it is academic or sports.
The best part is the societies people get enrolled in these activities not only improve social networks but also train a person to be a good leader for their future.
At last hostel life was quite amazing at Thapar University, Patiala
Pros

Good job environment
learning place for everyone
Management is good
campus is awesome

Placement is good
Thapar university is a really good university . If you really want to become a good engineer then Thapar University is a right option .

Rankings :-

Ranking: National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), MHRD, Govt. of India - 2017

Thapar University proudly announces its achievement as 26th ranked institution amongst top 100 engineering institutions of the country as declared by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), MHRD, Govt. of India.
Ranking: National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), MHRD, Govt. of India - 2016

They proudly announces its achievement as 27th ranked institution amongst top 100 engineering institutions of the country as declared by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), MHRD, Govt. of India.
It also has the distinction of being the 3rd best amongst privately managed engineering institutions of the country.
RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS :-

Thapar University, Patiala were declared second runner up in ‘Smart India Hackathon 2017' in Jaipur. 'Smart India Hackathon 2017' is a pan India 36 hour marathon nonstop digital programming competition. The participating teams concurrently competed across 33 locations in India to offer digital yet sustainable innovative solutions for real time challenges. 29 different government ministries and departments came together and posed 598 problem statements to students participating in this initiative. With 7531 idea solutions received from 2100+ technical institutions in India, it was a mammoth event.
Thapar Institute Of Engineering And Technology is one of the most prestigious universities of North India. There was a time when getting into Thapar university was a big achievement and a dream for students but with ever-increasing student intake and constantly hiking academic fees, people’s opinion about Thapar has changed a lot. Within couple of years, the intake has been increased by almost 50%. The administration is trying very hard to keep up the standard of university by Student Exchange Program with international universities like TCD and UNSW. Thapar Institute Of Engineering And Technology offers a wide variety of streams to choose from based on your interests but the quality of education and the quality of crowd in thapar Institute Of Engineering And Technology is degrading. Most of the Professors will come to class and just read out the content on slides. Most of the tutorial classes are taken by Phd or M.Tech students and they are not able to clear student’s doubts most of the times. They just come to the class, distribute tut sheets and either ask you to do it by yourself and ask for doubt if any OR they already got the solutions which they write on whiteboards.
Hi Friend,

Thapar University is a very well known institute for Engineering located at Patiala. Thapar University ranks amongst top universities in India in terms of placements as per the survey conducted by India Today and GHRDC.

Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology University is today recognized among the leading privately managed engineering institutions of the country and the best of its kind in the north-western region of India. NAAC, an Autonomous Institution of UGC, has reaccredited Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology University and award A Grade. Their courses and teaching faculty is very good.

TIET is one of India's oldest and finest educational institutions, which provides a steady source of highly skilled talent to the nation as well as overseas.
Infrastructure is great, all the students of other colleges that visit college agree to this. Placements are also pretty good, many world reputed companies visit campus every year. Canteen is also good that provides food at reasonable prices, moreover there are lots of other cafes and shops inside campus that provide you with food. Library is excellent with lots of books. Sports facilities are best with swimming pool, synthetic athletic track, 4-5 lawn tennis courts, badminton court, gym facilities in every hostel.
Thapar University very well university established in 1956 and till date it is in the list of top colleges in North India among 100 engineering colleges in India and Thapar School of Management stands at 21st position. In 2017 Thapar University secured 26th position in the list of top 100 Engineering Colleges by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) approved by the MHRD. it's specialization is applied science or BTech degrees. It also provides MBA degree. The placement record of Thapar University is excellent. In 2016 from all the branches of under graduation 677 students were placed and 374 were placed from post-graduation which made in rank in 8th rank amongst top universities in terms of placements all over India as per survey conducted by India Today & GHRDC. 2 students of Thapar university bag 32 lakhs annual package. For further information, you can visit the website