NEW DELHI: Telangana SSC result will be announced today. Telangana SSC Result: Live Update This year the Directorate of Government Examinations Telangana, also known as the SSC Board, had conducted the exam from March 16 to April 2. This year the Board is declaring the result 15 days later than it was declared in 2018. Last year the Telangana SSC result was released on April 27 and 83.78% students had qualified the exam. The pass percentage among female students was 85.14% and it was 82.46% among male students.
Admission to intermediate courses in schools and colleges, under the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education, will begin on May 21. As per the latest update released by the Board, the classes for intermediate courses will begin on June 1 at Government, Private Aided, Private Unaided, Co-operative, T.S.Residential, Social Welfare Residential, Tribal Welfare Residential, BC Welfare Residential, Incentive, Minority Residential, KGBV, T.S.Model Junior Colleges and Composite Degree Colleges.

Schedule for the second admission phase will be released after the first admission process concludes on July 1.


"The provisional admissions made will be confirmed after the production of original SSC pass certificate and Transfer Certificate issued by the school authorities, where they last studied," said the Board.
NEW DELHI: Counselling for Admission to B.Tech courses in Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) will commence from tomorrow i.e. May 9. VIT has already released the schedule for counselling to various B.Tech programmes offered by the varsity. The counselling schedule is released on the official website, www.vit.ac.in. The eligible candidates can now proceed for the counseling sections which will be held from May 9 to May 15 in the university campuses. The VITEEE counselling can only be attended by those whose names are mentioned in the merit list and can attend in any one of the campuses; Vellore, Chennai, Amaravathi (AP) and Bhopal (MP).
The counselling for allocation of the respective branches is based on the VITEEE Rank 2019.

The counselling schedule for the VIT is as follows:

Students who are between the rank 1 to 10000 will have to attend the counselling on May 9.

Candidates shortlisted between rank 10001 to 30000 will have to attend the counselling on May 10.

The students with rank between 30001 to 50000 will have to attend the counselling on May 12.

The candidates with rank between 50001 to 70000 will have to attend the counselling on May 13.


On May 14 and May 15 students who have secured rank between 70001 to 90000 and 90001- 110000 will have the counselling sessions respectively.

Common Selection and admission procedure will be followed through the single window counselling in Vellore, Chennai, Amaravathi and Bhopal for all B. Tech programmes.

Students will be permitted to attend only once and should carry the counselling e- admit card and copy of the Aadhaar Card.

According to the NIRF ranking 2019, Vellore Institute of Technology is ranked 18 among the engineering colleges and the overall ranking of VIT is at 32. VITEEE results 2019 was released on April 29.

This year, Saketika Chekuri from Karnataka topped the exam. Two girls have made it to the top 10 list.
NEW DELHI: Manipur class 12 results are out. Students can check it here.  The Council of Higher Secondary Education, Manipur had conducted the class 12 exam from February 18 to March 20. Students can check the result online using their roll number, registration number and date of birth details.
Last year, Sagar Acharya from Don Bosco HR. Sec. School was the overall state topper in Commerce stream. Seline Keisham from Comet School, Changangei had topped the class 12 exam in Science stream. Ningthoujam Radharani Devi from Enlighten Knowledge HR. Sec. School, Sangakpham was the topper in Arts stream.

Manipur Class 12 Result: Know How To Check

Step one: Visit the official website for Manipur results: manresults.nic.in

Step two: Click on the result link for Higher Secondary Examination Result 2017.


Step three: Enter your examination roll number and other details and click on submit.

Step four: View and download your result.
NEW DELHI: The Health Ministry, in consultation with the Board of Governors in the Medical Council of India (MCI), has decided to reduce the qualifying marks for NEET-PG for 2019-20 by six percentile.
Now, general category candidates with minimum mark of 44 percentile, persons with disabilities category with minimum of 39 percentile and SC/ST and OBC category candidates with 34 percentile will become eligible for admission to postgraduate medical courses for the academic year 2019-20, an official statement said.


COMMENT
"All states/UTs were requested to make necessary arrangements for allowing students as per revised qualifying marks in any further rounds of counselling this year," the statement stated.



(This story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)

Get the latest election news, live updates and election schedule for Lok Sabha Elections 2019 on ndtv.com/elections. Like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram for updates from each of the 543 parliamentary seats for the 2019 Indian general elections. Election results will be out on May 23.
NEW DELHI: Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) has released the result for Assistant Prelims examination. The examination was conducted on March 17, 2019 at 127 examination centres situated in 5 districts in the state. A total of 35,997 candidates appeared for the BPSC Assistant prelims examination. Out of these, only 695 have qualified for the main examination. BPSC had released a recruitment notification for Assistants in October. Out of the 51 posts advertised, 17 are reserved for women candidates.
The commission had released the provisional answer key for the BPSC prelims exam in March. 

BPSC Assistant Prelims Result 2019: How To Check?
Step one: Go to official BPSC website: www.bpsc.bih.nic.in.

Step two: Click on the result link for Assistant Prelims exam on the homepage.

Step three: A pdf will open. Download the pdf.

Step four: Open the pdf and search for your roll number. The pdf has roll numbers of candidates who have qualified in the prelims exam and are eligible to appear for the Assistant main examination.


BPSC Assistant Main examination will tentatively be held on June 15, 2019. The date may be changed, hence candidates are advised to keep a tracking the official BPSC website in order to not miss out on any update on the examination.

The application process for the Assistant Main examination will be notified soon on the commission's official website.

The cut off marks for unreserved category candidates is 119 and for female candidates from unreserved categories is 111. The cut off marks for SC candidates is 109 and for female candidates in the SC category is 101. For ST category the cut off marks is 107.
NEW DELHI: JEE Advanced 2019 registration has begun online. Students who qualified in the JEE Main 2019 examination can apply for the JEE Advanced exam now. The window to apply for JEE Advanced is small and hence students are advised to complete the registration process soon and not wait for the last date. The link to apply for JEE Advanced 2019 will be closed on May 9, 2019. Students will have the time to pay application fee till May 10, 2019.
JEE Advanced exam is conducted for admission to IITs. The top 2,24,000 students in JEE Main exam are qualified to appear for JEE Advanced exam.

JEE Advanced 2019: How To Register?
Step one: Go to JEE Advanced 2019 official website https://jeeadv.ac.in.

Step two: Login with JEE Main 2019 roll number and date of birth.

Step three: Create a new password for successful registration.

Step four: Fill in the details displayed on the screen.

Step five: Mention the number of attempts, requirement of scribe (if any), exam centre, language of exam and category.


JEE Advanced 2019 Registration: Direct Link

SC, ST, PwD and Female candidates have to pay Rs. 1300 as application fee. The application fee for all other candidates is Rs. 2600. The payment can be made by Credit Card/ Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ E-banking.

Candidates can also pay the application fee through e-challan. Candidates should take the print out of e-challan and deposit the amount in the nearest SBI Branch. After payment, the candidates must download the "Registration Details" with UNIQUE Registration Number.

The JEE Advanced admit card will be released on May 20, 2019 and exam will be held on May 27.