NEW DELHI: National Testing Agency, ahead of the NEET examination, has changed examination centres for multiple cities on account of the upcoming general elections. A list of the changed exam centres is available on the official website. Apart from the website, NTA has also notified concerned students through email, SMS, and voice message. Since the examination centres have been changed, NTA has also issued fresh admit cards.
The NEET examination centres have either been rectified or been changed in the following states:

Chhattisgarh
Delhi
Gujarat
Karnataka
Kerala
Maharashtra
Rajasthan
Uttar Pradesh
West Bengal
Assam
Himachal Pradesh
Jharkhand
Madhya Pradesh
Manipal
Meghalaya
Tamil Nadu
Tripura
Jammu and Kashmir
Odisha
Students who have their examination centres in cities in any of the above states, should check if their exam centre has been changed and download their newly issued admit card for NEET UG examination.

"Candidates are also advised to acquaint themselves with the location of the new Examination Centre allotted now, so that they do not face any difficulty in reaching the newly allotted Examination Centre," says NTA notification.

The new admit cards are available on the official website for NEET UG 2019. The exam date remains unchanged.

NEET UG exam is a national-level entrance exam which is conducted for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses which are offered at medical and dental institutes approved by MCI.
NEW DELHI: CBSE 10th Class results will be announced anytime from now. When contacted, an official from the Board, which organises secondary and higher secondary annual examinations for registered students, said the details about the dates will be released later. The Board has released CBSE 12th results today and according to the practice the 10th results can be expected in one week. Last year, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) released the Class 10 results three days after the 12th results declaration. An year before that, the CBSE 10th results were announced in one week after the higher secondary results declaration. Keeping this in mind, we can assume that the CBSE 10th results will be announced anytime from now. The Class 10 results will be announced on the official websites, cbse.nic.in and cbseresults.nic.in.
The Board had conducted the 10th annual examinations in India and abroad in March for more than 18 lakh candidates. 

CBSE 10th results 2019: How to check
CBSE 10th results  date, CBSE 10th results 2019, CBSE 10th results 2019, CBSE results 2019, CBSE 12th result,  CBSE 10th results, cbseresults.nic.in, cbse.nic.in, cbse 2019, cbse result 2019, cbse 10 result, cbse class 10, cbse result 2019 class 10, cbse 10th results, cbse result 2019 date
CBSE 10th result 2019: The results will be announced on the official websites, cbse.nic.in and cbseresults.nic.in 

Follow the steps given here to download your 12th results:

Step 1: Visit any of the following websites after the results declaration; 

cbse.nic.in, cbseresults.nic.in

Step 2: On the homepage, click on the results link

Step 3: On the next page open, enter your exam registration details

Step 4: Submit the details you have entered

Step 5: Check your CBSE 12th results from next page
CBSE 12th topper Hansika Shukla scored 499 marks out of 500

Total number of students registered- 12,18,393

Total Passing Percentage - 83.4%

Top Region - Trivandrum: 98.2%

Foreign Schools Passing Percentage - 95.43%


Male Candidates Passing Percentage - 79.4%

Female Candidates Passing Percentage - 88.70%

Transgender Candidates Passing Percentage - 83.3%

Specially Aided Candidates Passing Percentage - 90.25%

CBSE 12th result 2019: Toppers
Hansika Shukla - 499 marks (Meerut Road, Ghaziabad) - First Rank

Karishma Arora - 499 marks (Muzafarnagar, Uttar Pradesh) -First rank

Gaurangi Chawla - 498 marks (Rishikesh, Uttarakhand) - Second rank

Aishwarya - 498 (Kendriya Vidyalaya, Rae Bareli, UP) - Second rank

Bhavya 498 B R S K (Jind, Haryana) - Second rank
NEW DELHI: Delhi schools, affiliated to CBSE, have shown improvement in the results with a pass percentage of 91.87 per cent. "CBSE Class 12 results: Delhi improves by 2.87 per cent as compared with last year," Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia tweeted. "Congratulations to all the teachers, parents and my dear students. You have made me feel proud," he added.
In 2018, the pass percentage was 89 per cent, this year it jumped to 91.87 per cent.

Hansika Shukla and Karishma Arora have secured 499 out of 500 marks in CBSE class 12 annual board exam held in February-March this year. A total of 1 2,87359 students appeared for Class 12 board examination, out of which 7,48,498 are boys and 5,38,861 girls.

Girls have performed better than boys this time. The pass percentage among girls is 88.7% and among boys 79.04% students have cleared the exam.


17,693 students have scored more than 95 per cent marks in the board examination. 94,299 students have scored more than 90 per cent marks.

Last year the pass percentage in CBSE class 12 board exam was 83.01%.

1 COMMENT

Nagaland Board of School Education (NBSE) released HSLC and HSSLC result today. In HSSLC exam, 74.44 per cent students have passed in Arts stream, 74.68 per cent students have passed in Commerce stream, and 81.37 per cent students have passed in the Science stream. In HSLC exam the pass percentage is 68.29 per cent. Overall, the pass percentage of students from private institutes is better than government schools.
NBSE Result 2019 Highlights
Imtijungla Pongen is the Arts stream topper with 94.40 per cent marks.
Suhana Begum is Commerce stream topper with 96.00 per cent marks.
Ananya Kumar das is the Science stream topper with 94.60 per cent marks.
In Arts stream, the pass percentage in government schools is 76.24 per cent and in private institutes is 82.43 per cent.
In Commerce stream, the pass percentage in government schools is 87.27 per cent and in private institutes is 80.34 per cent.
In Science stream, the pass percentage in government schools is 72.48 per cent and for private institutes is 86.77 per cent.
Wangshitemjen Ozukum from Queen Mary Higher Secondary School, Mokokchung, is the state topper in class 10.
Ohiduz Zaman is the second topper in class 10 with 97.50 per cent marks.
The pass percentage for class 10 in government schools is 43.32 per cent.
The pass percentage for class 10 in private schools is 84.76 per cent.
The result is available on the official website and students can check their result using their respective examination roll numbers. The marks sheets, pass certificate and other documents for students who have passed in the exam will be handed over by the board office to heads of institutes tomorrow till May 7 and students would need to collect their certificates from their respective schools.
There’s no shortage of journalism focusing on education. But little of it has examined a fundamental question: what gets taught in our schools and how?

Look through a newspaper or magazine—or one of the education-focused news websites that have sprung up in recent years—and you’ll see plenty of stories about schools: teacher strikes, racial and socioeconomic disparities and segregation, charter schools, the role of technology, and (alas) school shootings. But if you’re curious about what is actually going on in American classrooms—what texts and topics are being taught, what kinds of questions teachers are asking students—you’re unlikely to find much information. And yet that’s what the public needs if we’re going to understand many of the problems that plague our education system, not to mention our society as a whole.

There are encouraging signs that the situation is beginning to change—including a panel at a recent conference of education journalists on “Curricular Concerns: How to Cover What Gets Taught.” Attendance was high, and one prominent education journalist tweeted afterwards, “This is the session that will change my lens for the year.”

The panelists—two academics and a school district leader—minced no words, focusing largely on the plight of students of color and those from low-income backgrounds, whose test scores and graduation rates lag far behind their peers, and placing the blame on “curriculum.” But journalists could have been left confused about what the problem is. Are the textbooks deficient? Or is it that teachers have been told it’s best to create curriculum themselves—despite not having received training in that—with the result that the vast majority get materials from websites like Pinterest? Or is the problem that educators believe it’s more important to teach “skills” like critical thinking rather than focusing on content—despite abundant evidence that content knowledge is what enables you to think critically?

The answer, unfortunately, is all of the above—and more. But perhaps the place to begin is with the last point. The education establishment, including schools of education and textbook publishers, have largely “pooh-poohed” the idea of knowledge, observed panelist Sonja Santelises, chief executive officer of the Baltimore public schools.

“It doesn’t take the place of other things,” she said, “but to say it’s a side dish, to say content doesn’t matter, is professional malpractice.”

In Baltimore and a few other places, leaders like Santelises are trying to turn things around by adopting curricula that build knowledge in history, science, literature, and the arts. That’s the kind of knowledge that can ensure academic success, and children from more educated families generally acquire it outside of school. Children from less educated families—like the majority of those who attend Baltimore’s public schools—often won’t acquire it unless they get it in school. And most don’t.