Why should we read books?
So, books. Books keep me sane. I’m angry, I read. I’m happy, I read. I’m sad, I read. I’m annoyed, I read. And when I’m burdened with my coursework and can’t make time for reading, I throw my course books aside and I read. I cut back on sleep and read. Sometimes I read while I eat.

For me, reading’s pretty much a synonym for halcyon. I’m an addict and have no qualms about it. I love to experiment with genres, no favourites here! Oh except, I can’t tolerate crappy romance novels. I just can’t. I’ve tried to develop a liking for them but failed miserably. Consider:

Natalie’s dating Nathan but she sleeps with Anton, Nathan finds out and breaks up with Nat only to realise 150 pages later that Nat cooked this story up because she’s dying of cancer and didn’t wanna leave Nathan hanging. So much for love.

Plots like these make my eyes cringe and bleed, just can’t stand them. The writing’s usually bad and superficial with zero application of psychology and sense. I could name a few authors but I won’t. To each his own.

Coming to why I read and you should too. A good book will keep you amused and also equip you with life skills. Even if the story’s not gold, a book will teach you something. If the plot’s set in Sweden, it’ll give you a glimpse (if not an all-around-peeper) of the Swedish culture. If it’s non-fiction, it’ll enhance your understanding of the world around you. If it’s a mystery it’ll give you an adrenaline rush. If it’s a non-fiction-medical-thriller then it might even shove some science down your throat. If it’s on self improvement it’ll help you in becoming a better version of yourself.

Most books will provide you with all of the above, and much more. You’ll learn about places, people, cultures, traditions. Whatever the genre maybe, it’ll open doors to paradise, besides giving you an insight into human psychology.

There will definitely be moments when you identify with a character so much that you magnify understanding of your own self. Funny isn’t it? I always find it amusing when a fictional character tells me stuff about myself.

When you start reading, the world will become a better place. You’ll actually look forward to lines and layovers and waiting rooms. You’ll never be bored again, you’ll always be intellectually stimulated. You’ll ask why it took you so long to rouse this superpower within you.

You’ll learn so much, you’ll realise that you were dumber than you thought, that there’s so much about your world you don’t know yet. To shed off the stupid you’ll read even more. It’s a cycle.

Of course, some books you’ll forget quickly. You’ll never pick them up again—just like you meet people in the streets you never see again. But then there’ll be books you’ll never really close and put away. You’ll always carry the stories in your heart, you’ll always take these books with you to the airport or to the station. You’ll grow so fond of the characters you’ll find yourself googling “I’m in love with a fictional character, what do I do?”

The point is, once you begin reading, you’ll change. Reading will sculpt and chisel your raw form and refine you. It’ll bring out feelings you didn’t even know resided in you. I believe to know the world, you needn’t always travel. You can read! It’s equally thrilling.

An advice is in order: don’t just read what you think you love. Experiment! To me genres are like children, can’t treat one any different from the others. Once you become aware of contrasting dissensions, you discover truths you thought were false. That’s when you dive into the trench of wisdom and discover pretty pearls of knowledge.

What’s more, there are studies which prove that reading reduces stress. You don’t want grey hair on your head at 30, do you? So waltz to your book abode and skim through the pages to find treasure. There’s always a pot of gold waiting for you at the last page.

Happy reading!
Last night I had this conversation with my parents regarding money that I spent on various things where unfortunately things went wrong and the conversation had turned into a heated argument. I was quite dejected about the situation.

Getting back to my current read! (i.e, yesterday) “Tuesdays With Morrie.” It is about a dying professor who tells his student friend on what to do with his life. So when I opened the book, the chapter that I has to read was “The Eighth Tuesday, We talk about Money.” Where the dying professor clearly states that money isn't everything in life and people who are running behind it are fools. Which one of the lines read “You can't substitute material things for love.”

I was instantly hit by the book. Like literally slapped left and right on my face. I came to know that what I have done was exactly wrong. I have got a chance to correct myself through reading this book at this juncture of time.

And I got this lines instantly into my mind which I have read them somewhere earlier. “Like a wand chooses its master. You don't choose a book. You let it choose you.”

Everyone one of us are big fans of Harry Potter series and we know how good and crucial is Hermoine Granger's role which is associated with massive book reading. I absolutely love her there.
And when it comes to the real world there are loads of people who have made it big through reading books. And I have heard this somewhere that Warren Buffet on an average reads about 600–1000 pages a day. That's how knowledge worked for him.

And if you want to list it up with all the famous persons and celebrities who reads books, It won't stop here for sure.

Bill Gates

Jeff Bezos

Oprah Winfrey

Dr. A P J Abdul Kalam

Barack Obama

Mahatma Gandhi

Sharukh Khan

Oh!! Noo!! My fingers are swelling!

Remember our childhood days when we are walking lonely in the streets frightened about the dark nights imagining strange creatures following us. Or for that matter we dreamt about all the worldly things in a unique way. But this TV sets, mobile phones and the world of cinema ruined over imagination process to a large extent. Our minds are deceased partially.

For example when we ought to think about a famous king or a dream girl for that matter, we make it by associating with a famous celebrity but don't use our imagination power hardly.


Books are something that can help you to repair your imagination skills and bring it back to the normal.

Just as food is necessary to the life of the body, so good reading is necessary to life of the soul.

So it isn't strange saying that a reader lives a thousand lives.

I think I have made some valid points here.

Go and get a book of your own choice without hesitating.

I need to catch up with “The Alchemist”

Bye for now!!!

Sunil Nadakuditi

