What life lessons does Game of Thrones teach us?

Here are 20 characters from George RR Martin’s ‘Game Of Thrones ’ who possess qualities admirable enough for us to learn.

1. Tyrion Lannister – Always Keep Your Wits By Your Side. It Doesn’t Matter What Your Size Is, You Can Get Out Of Any Situation With Your Presence Of Mind.


​
By far, one of the most loved characters on ‘Game Of Thrones ’, Tyrion is a Lannister with a heart. He is shrewd, witty, and intelligent. Couple it with a conscience and you’ve got a winner. He is a dwarf and has always been ill-treated by his own father and this fact haunts him all his life. But that hasn’t cost the man his wit and his intelligence.

He designs a riding saddle for Bran Stark who has lost his legs, he wiggles his way out of a trial at Eyrie by asking Lysa Arryn for a trial by combat, he manages an excellent defence against Stannis at Blackwaters—he is an efficient administrator, a fair politician (as oxymoronic as it can get), and not to mention, unapologetically indulgent. He drinks and whores and has no regard for boring conventions. He is what we call a modern-age hero.
​
2. Lord Petyr Baelish – Make The Most Of Every Opportunity. The World Belongs To Those Who Dare To Dream.


​
Probably the smartest character among all, Littlefinger knows his way around the world. Clever and scheming, he climbs the royal ladder with much ease and has come a long way from a humble hedge knight to becoming Master of Coin. And he is not completely without ethics. He did love Catelyn Stark and means to protect her eldest child Sansa. Come to think of it, he is the one who triggered the entire train of events in the series when he asked Lysa Arryn to poison her husband Jon Arryn, the hand of the king.

3. Cersei Lannister – Use Tact Like A Fire; Burn Your Enemy But Be Judicious To Not Get Burnt Yourself.


​
She knows how to manipulate things to suit her end. Sharp, clever and unmerciful, she will spare no one who threatens to break the fabric that holds her royal family together. Fiercely protective of her children, she stops at nothing while on her way to ensuring the Lannisters rule the seven kingdoms. She is ambitious, manipulative, and has a mean streak that can make even the biggest politicians shudder. Her Achilles’ heel is her jealousy and insecurity. In her attempt to tackle Margaery, she ends up tarnishing her own image.

4. Arya Stark - When Life Becomes Tough, You Get Tougher.


​
The little girl has more fight in her than the entire Stark clan put together. Having witnessed her father’s gruesome beheading, Arya vows to kill everybody associated with the murder. She repeats the names of her enemies every night before going to sleep lest she forget them. She is on the road most of the time, but rather than holding her back, it only steels her resolve to avenge her family. Holding dear her sword Needle, she leaves no opportunity to polish her fighting skills. When she kills her first man, she doesn’t bat an eyelid. When life gets tough, you get tougher; and she is the perfect example.

5. Jon Snow, A True Comrade And Warrior – Bravery Wins You Admiration, Kindness Earns You Respect.


​
No matter what the situation, you never leave your comrade’s side. While courage and bravado will win you admiration and followers, kindness and compassion will earn you friends. Jon Snow had both. He is unable to kill Ygrid when he has the chance because killing a girl is not something a warrior is proud of. He is the one who protects Sam when he joins the Night’s Watch and displays no ability to protect himself. He is a brave warrior with a good heart.

6. Daenerys Targaryen – If You Want To Lead, Be Fair And Just


​
In the scheming and plotting world of ‘Game of Thrones’, Daenerys is a breath of fresh air. She is brave but not cruel. She is fair but not foolhardy. She is a true leader. She is on a learning path and she is not ashamed to take advice from those who have more experience than her. She doesn’t conquer people; she wins them and a real leader knows the difference.

7. Sansa Stark – Adaptability Is The Key To Survival.


​
Sansa is the meek girl whose only quality seems enduring the immense pain life gives her. While her sister Arya is more the fighter who manages to run away, Sansa is a self-preservationist who adapts well to her surroundings and that’s her survival tactic. She endures all the atrocities and keeps a patient head on her shoulders; she gives herself time to evolve. She was naïve and afraid. Not everybody can be a fighter and that’s okay. In the end, she is alive; she has survived and come out a stronger person. Isn’t that what life is all about?

8. Lord Varys – Power Lies In Wisdom And Intelligence. The Wise Are The Builders Of Society.


​
If Lord Varys came across as yet another scheming petty courtier in the first few seasons, blame it on the plot. He is much more than that. He is the silent voice of wisdom. He does what’s best for the realm. When Cersei was ruling, he helped her rule but when things got out of hand and he saw decay in the rulership, he decided that a worthier head deserved the crown. He helps Tyrion escape because he sees Daenerys as a worthy ruler and rightly so. He is no sentimental fool; shifting loyalties is a pragmatic approach. Loyalty is a myth and Varys is a man of the world. His is the kind that builds civilizations and keeps them standing.

9. Bran Stark – Listen To Your Inner Voice; The Power Lies Within Us.


​
When life takes away something from you, it gives you something else. Bran’s ability to walk is snatched away from him but he has the gift of a warg, he can get into the minds of animals. But for that he has to connect with himself first; the power lies within him, he just has to discover it. Just like in life; you have to discover your essence before you can embark on any journey.

10. Margaery Tyrell – Influencing People With Your Words And Manners Is An Art 


​
When Petyr asks her if she wants to be a queen, she replies she wants to be THE queen. That’s Margaery—ambitious, tactful, and a smooth talker. She is quick to impress King Joffery, she manages to make a place (even if fleetingly) for herself in the public’s heart; there’s nothing so disarming as a clever and charming woman. But the lady is not without a conscience. She is not cruel like Joffery, she doesn’t mean harm for the innocent. This kind can rise in the ranks with the right words at the right moment, only if they know how to defend themselves from the Cerseis of the world.

11. Brienne of Tarth – If You’ve Taken A Vow, Complete It. If You’ve Set An Aim, Reach It.


​
Lady Brienne (though she doesn’t like being called lady) of Tarth is an epitome of loyalty. She sticks to her promise to Lady Catelyn of keeping the Stark girls safe. Her steely resolve make her a formidable opponent and even the Hound is unable to defeat her. Her will power and determination is exceptional; that is what we need—the sheer determination to stick to our aims and promises.

12. Jaime Lannister—It Is Never Too Late To Own Up To Your Mistakes. 


​

Life Is All About Learning From Experience. Jaime Lannister is one round character in the series. The Kingslayer had no qualms about pushing a young boy (Bran) to death to save his dirty secret once, but he is a changed man after his torturous experience as a prisoner of the Starks and during his journey with Brienne. Isn’t that what life is actually all about? Learning from experience and becoming wiser in the process. He learns compassion and honour from Brienne of Tarth; his journey with her changes him and makes him see the world outside.

13. Tywin Lannister – Only Money Doesn’t Buy You Power, You’ve Got To Know How To Use It Well.


​
Money rules the world, and it is no different in any era. Tywin is a clever businessman. He has money and he uses it to buy himself power, authority and allies. He is nobody’s fool. He knows how to protect his power. When rumours of the Tyrells wanting Sansa to get engaged to Sir Loras surface, he is quick to fix the matches differently – Sansa with Tyrion and Cersei with Sir Loras, and not even sharp-tongued Grandma Tyrell can do much about it.

14. Ser Davos Seaworth – Never Be Afraid To Say The Truth Or Do What’s Right.


​
Though Ser Davos is loyal to his king Stannis, he doesn’t shy away from speaking his mind even if it gets him punished. He speaks against the Red Woman and the killing of innocents and is ready to bear the consequences. No matter what the situation in life, sometimes it is necessary to speak up. What is happening to somebody else right now can happen to us too if not stopped at the right moment.

15. Ned Stark – Don’t Be Too Idealistic; The World Is No Place For Naïve Morals.


​
Ned Stark is a perfect gentleman. His sense of morality is so idealistic, it borders on naivety. When he discovers the truth about Cersei and Jaime, he prefers to tell her first. And it gets him killed. In this day and age, naïve ideals don’t work anymore. You have to be smart and know your way around the world. Even if your intentions are good, you need to know how to outwit the world.

16. Samwell Tarly – Knowledge Is Power; Never Underestimate Anyone.


​
The Night’s Watch would consider him utterly useless and unworthy of protecting the realm. But Sam emerges as a likeable character and even a resourceful one. He is a reader and has read extensively on various topics, including how dragonglass can kill a white walker.

17. Jaqen H'ghar - A Man Always Keeps His Promises.


​
The faceless man keeps his promise to Arya that he’d kill 3 people for her. No matter the difficulty of the task, he manages to complete it and even promises her help in the future.

18. Theon Greyjoy - Don’t Let Your Insecurity And Pride Get Your Better Judgment.


​
Theon’s life is a lesson in how insecurities can ruin everything you hold dear—family, relationships, friends. Theon’s insecurity about his identity is very easily ignited; he is ready to turn his back on the Stark family with which he grew up. He doesn’t belong to the Greyjoys but in his desperate attempt to be accepted by them, he ends up ruining everything. It doesn’t matter where you come from, what matters is where you want to go.

19. Bronn – Know When To Say No.


​
Bronn is a great fighter, but more importantly, he is street-smart. He has no morals and works only for money. He knows when to say no; when Tyrion asks him to fight for him against The Mountain, he politely declines knowing well the risk is not worth taking. The burden of morals is too heavy to carry in this world and Bronn knows it all too well. That’s what helps him survive and with a richer reward too.

20. Ser Jorah Mormont – Protect Those You Love, Just Don’t Get Friend-Zoned.


​
Ser Jorah loves Daenerys and he can go to any length to protect her. Even after his secret is revealed and she banishes him, Jorah is keen to protect her at any cost. He can’t leave her. He is a brave fighter and has saved her life many times, but let’s face the truth, he has gotten friend-zoned and there’s no hope for him now.
I watched GOT for the first time few months ago and completed entire 7 seasons in just 2 months. Since than I have became a big fan of the series.

GOT is not only for entertainment, but if you watch the series with full focus you will get to know a lot many things about life which are well described in the Series.

Following are some of the many life lessons one can learn from Game of Thrones.

Love has no boundaries and can happen with any one, even with your sister. (Cersi Lannister and Jamie Lannister)

Even with your Aunt. (John Snow and Daenerys Targaryen)

And even with the one you can't have sex with. (Missandei and Grey Worm)

No matter how good or how wise you are, people will still judge you from your appearance. (Tyrion Lannister)

Never be too overconfident and never let your focus out unless you have completely destroyed your opponent. (Prince Oberyn Vs The Mountain)

Never let your enemies know about your weakness. (Ned Stark to Lannisters)

Sometimes its better to trust a stranger than people you know. (Sansa Stark trusting Little finger and Nort lady Brien)

With desire, hardwork and dedication a person can achieve any thing. (Arya Stark becoming the Faceless man)

If you are smart and dedicated, then you can clear even the biggest hurdles easily. (Arya Stark destroying entire house frey)

Bravery is bigger than numbers. (Jon Snow at Battle of Basterds)

Sometimes small enemies should unite against the common bigger enemy. (Entire Westeros vs The White Walkers)

You should never backstab one who trusts you. (Theon Greyjoy to House Stark)

Sometimes you get punished for the crimes which are not even yours. (Jon Snow being a Basterd)

Thankyou for Reading,

Shivam
5 Seasons. And innumerable and myriad of life lessons. Lessons and words of wisdom and experience, which'll help us at every step of our lives, which are so relevant that if we choose to ignore them, we'll in most probability end up as under-dogs and deadbeat.

These are some of the top chalk talk which I took away from Game Of Thrones till now.

The ALWAYS

1. Always be Observant: Lord Varys. My My. He is one of the smartest, most astute and ardently loyal to the throne and the kingdom. He is resourceful because of being observant and his 'little birds'. He has information about literally everyone he should be concerned about and uses it as leverage when required. He has the sense of righteousness and knows who'll be fit for the throne! 

Don't forget his conversation with Tryion Lannister 

“Here, then. Power resides where men believe it resides. No more and no less.”
“So power is a mummer’s trick?”
“A shadow on the wall,” Varys murmured, “yet shadows can kill. And ofttimes a very small man can cast a very large shadow.”
Tyrion smiled. “Lord Varys, I am growing strangely fond of you. I may kill you yet, but I think I’d feel sad about it.”
“I will take that as high praise.”

LIFE LESSON: In real life, always be attentive, discerning and mindful. Choose your friends carefully. Be alert with your colleagues and never let them have leverage over you and make it the other way round.




2. Always be fearless: Tyrion Lannister tops this list along with Sir Jorah, The Hound, Daenerys Targareyan and a few more. But I have a special respect for the imp, don't we all have? He is the grilled and loathed by his father. He is hated by his sister and his brother Jaime pity's him. All his life he was roasted for being short heighted and for being nothing but a spoilt son who's the king of tits and wine.

But what people really failed to see behind this tarnished image was the fearless, knowledgeable, and the intelligent little man! He wore his weakness as an armor and truly, no one was able to go through it. How can we forget this ;)

I want a Trial . By. Combat . with the million dollar grin.



LIFE LESSON: In real world, we should be proud of who we are, whether its the physical attributes, the race, color, anything! Although this shouldn't be there in the first place but what we are dealing with is reality. Read. Read vociferously and one day, one fine day it'll help you in an unimaginable way.

3. Always love your Children: Although Cersei ultimately faced the wrath of Karma, but there's so much to learn from her. She Loves her children unconditionally and thoroughly. She Spoils them. Because hey, we are the Lannisters. She protects them, she stands up to any wrong being done to them such as when Tyrion, although protecting her sent Cersei's daughter Myrcella to Dorne.




Well, in existence, we shouldn't raise a Joffrey but we should love our children with no reservations which was shown by Tywin Lannister towards Tyrion and which is still shown in the real world when children own up to their special needs. 

LIFE LESSON: Don't be this: My son told me that he is gay. I kicked him out of my house. Now I don't know where he is, and I'm worried about him. Was I wrong?

4. Always believe in yourself: Arya Stark and Daenerys Targareyan. Both of them want revenge against atrocities against their famlies and although the odds are against them (somewhat), they believe themselves and are guided by their will. One by one. Target by Target. Smaller Kingdoms to the Westerlands, they'll get what they want because they have the confidence, and faith in themselves.





LIFE LESSON: In the real world, we will face difficulties in achieving our goals, there will be failures, there will be intense nail biting competition, and there will be no mercy shown. But Belief. The power of belief in oneself can take you to your destiny, your success and success is sweet. 



5. Always keep your word: Robb Stark gave his word to Walder Frey to marry one of his daughters and blatantly broke it to marry Talisa. And Red Wedding was what he got in return. Although pretty heartless, but promises broken are, well, broken promises.



LIFE LESSON: Never speak with a forked tongue. If you can't fulfill your promise which is also wrong, don't just break it on the face of it. The result's pretty gruesome, if not merciless killing spree by the offended.

The NEVERS.

1. Never Stop Trying:  Stannis Baratheon hands down.
He is one son of a gun yet underrated in Game of Thrones. We all know that he was the real rightful king to the throne. And he stopped at nothing. He didn't fear the threat beyond the wall. He didn't whine when his horses were chopped off and his soldiers tricked. He braved the cold and he is willing do to what it takes to do for the greater good. Till the last epsiode, this man tried!



LIFE LESSON: You Failed? You had an accident? You're physically disabled? Your parents died? Your 10 year love left you? You got fired? The gush of questions might sound cruel, but THIS IS REALITY AND NOT GAME OF THRONES. 
A famous person once said 'Chaos isn't a pit. Chaos is a Ladder' Never ever give up. I repeat. Never. 

2. Never be Stupid (Proud): Sansa Stark. Theon Greyjoy. I won't even waste my time on them. Except for they are Dumb. Half-Witted. Unintelligent. 







LIFE LESSON: Never be Sansa Stark and Theon Greyjoy. Don't expect and be under the impression that life will be full of roses for you. But know that roses have thorns. 

3. Never Make Enemies: King Joffrey. Viscerys Targareyen.
Just because you're on the throne or you're a Targareyan, doesn't mean you're unbeatable or cannot be clobbered like a sorry soul. They made enemies, and they made a lot of them. And when things start slipping, remember 'The axe forgets, but the Tree remembers' 





LIFE LESSON: Never wrong anyone. Don't hurt them. Don't betray them. Don't test their patience. Because, revenge, when it hits you, the pain will be unbearable. Always be truthful, be kind, be helpful. 

4. Never Force anyone to do something they don't want to:



LIFE LESSON: Never compel any person to do something against their wishes. They'll take it once. They certainly won't take it nicely the next time. 

SPECIAL MENTION

5. Be Shrewd: One of my favorite characters from GOT, Lord Peter 'LittleFinger' Baelish. Canny. Farsighted. Slick. Sharp. I will fall short of adjectives for this one. He is one of those characters that people love to hate, or hate that they love. His sense of style is flawless, his monologues drip with eloquence, his machinations are nothing short of epic and his flawless politics maneuvers are just too good.



LIFE LESSON: Throne is always not important. Even Tommen Baratheon (Lannister) can be on the throne. But what's crucial is whether you can be calculative. Whether you can play both good and bad. Whether you can be a sweet-talker but still be a viper within. 


I am done. 

Have a good rest of the day :-)