What is in the book "Autobiography of Yogi"?

What is the gist of the world renowned book Autobiography of a Yogi?

This is a lovely question. Thank you for asking.

I found this book incidentally, while browsing books on Amazon India site. The name was fascinating. I was not into Yog back then and my spiritual awakening process had just begun. I bought the Kindle version of the book, and got hooked onto it, as soon as I began reading it. Its one of the must books, for all Yogis and spiritualists.

The gist of this book, in one sentence is, “ You are Eternal and Divine”.

The entire book talks about the miraculous events that unfolded in the life of Paramahamsa Yogananda. We live in a materialistic world, in which we always demand proof and facts, before we can actually believe in spiritual phenomenon. We want to see a miracle before it happens. This books asks you, to believe in miracles and you will then begin to witness them. The entire story of Yogananda, right from his childhood and then finding his guru, Sri Yukteshwar and finally, his journey to US, on the mission to spread Kriya Yoga, is not only remarkable, but also something for every person, who is looking for a deep meaning in life. Life is not just about living mundane activities, but its for us to discover, who we are, and what is the core purpose of being here.

The purpose of being in the physical body is to experience life on planet Earth and while in this body, and with a veil of illusion, which keeps us in a state of separation, one has the task to awaken, to realize who you are, and that is that, you are eternally divine. You are not the body, or anything that is perceived of you, from the materialistic world. You are that, which cannot be described, but can be only realized, in the quite of your mind.

God is within you. There is no separation between God and you, and there is also no separation between you and others. We are all connected but the ego gives us the sense of being an individual. Yogananda praises the miraculous effects of Kriya Yog. I have not learned Kriya Yog but I do practice Ashtanga Yog, and I can testify the spiritual benefits of Yog.

Yog has transformed my life completely. I used to be a very logic oriented person and for me also, ‘I will believe it, when I see it’ was always the mantra. Then, I began to evolve and started to believe. That’s when so many unbelievable things have begun to happen in my life. Many difficult tasks are now being taken care of effortlessly, while earlier I would face hurdles in accomplishing even simple tasks. This book makes you learn to operate out of faith, pure unquestionable faith and let go of control, which is based on the ego. When you come in this state of Being, oh trust me, you will become the Creator and the Controller of your life.

You gain control, only when you let go of control.

You become powerful, only when you don’t desire to be powerful.

You get everything, only when you lose the desire and instead live in surrender.

In surrender, lies your victory!

