What is the most horrible children's book ever written?Without a doubt, Brenda’s Beaver Needs a Barber.


As you’ll see as we progess through the story, it’s not really a children’s book at all. It’s part of a series of children’s books for adults.

My problem is that it looks like a children’s book. And that means if it ends up around children, they’ll read it.

So with that in mind, let me introduce you to Brenda and her beaver.


It starts out innocent enough. It has a nice sing-song lyric that’s easy to read and draws you in. Don’t you want to know why Brenda’s beaver is a mess? Keep reading to find out.


Now I’ve encountered a beaver or two in the wild. They are big. And they are hairy. But scary, that I’ve never seen. And, if I can, I find it ironic that it’s the men who fear Brenda’s hairy beaver, running from it like it’s the plague.


Well, even I can agree that Brenda should keep her beaver underwraps when at the beach. After all, a hairy beaver can draw attention, especially in public. Although it’s never polite to point, even if it’s a hairy beav.


Again, I can’t disagree. A hairy beaver in a tiny bikini is never the right decision. Perhaps she should have chosen a boyshort bottom for the hairy little thing.


Every mammal needs vitamin D, even hairy beavers! And while, I think we can agree, a beaver shouldn’t be hanging out in mixed company, it’s still not nice to laugh and stare, even if it’s a beaver with some stray hairs out and about. Not okay folks. Just look the other way.


Apparently peer pressure to manage the beaver is appropriate nowadays. If you want your beaver to grow wild, your friends may not like it! And can I just say that the beaver dressed in stripes is super cute!?!


Like your beaver short-haired? Go for the biker chick. Or the one with green hair. Not always the same.


Go figure that the airline attendant goes for the landing strip look. O.M.G. That’s so late 90s. And could that dress be any shorter?! Just joking ladies. I like a nice little strip showing me the way. Especially under a short skirt. Wink. Wink. I also like the way that Brenda’s petting her beaver. Something tells me it’s not her first time.


Ah, Krissy. Doesn’t Krissy look like the nice girl every guy wants to take home to momma? Doesn’t she look just like the girl-next-door? Isn’t it amazing that it’s her that has the “quite rare” shaved beaver? My goodness, her beaver is bare!


Hahahahahaha. If you’ve ever waxed a beaver, you already know why I’m laughing. It’s definitely not a relaxing experience. Especially when it’s your friends doing it, not a professional. And, yes, I have waxed my beav with friends. Weird, to say the least.


“Frumpy pile of hair.” How exactly is this teaching girls (and women) to love their bodies and their beavers, regardless of what they look like? I’m a little confused.



Such a cool little beaver with a nice little heart left. In reality, it’s much harder to shave a shape into a beaver than most imagine!


And now, with her almost hairless beaver, Brenda lets a strange man with a camera and little boys with their dads look at her beaver. She “shows it off.”

The End.

UPDATE: For those of you for whom English is a second language, beaver is an American slang term for pubic area.
I offer THIS as an example: An article on the Cracked site entitled “6 Hilarious Attempts at Brainwashing Kids With Comic Books”. ONE of these was an Advertising Comic for a now long-failed videogame system.

I will condense them as I go along.

First comic: BRAIN DRAIN!


This was a promo comic released in 2006 by Marvel Comics for OfficeMax.

In this, Doctor Doom is kidnapping the smartest middle schoolers in the country and draining the knowledge from their heads. The teachers of the students show up to help, and the super heroes raid an OfficeMax store, then go back to Fantastic Fours’ headquarters to use their supercomputer to locate Dr. Doom..

Yeah. Not kidding here. Nothing in this comic makes sense.

They locate his castle, invade it, and defeat Dr. Doom by using an OfficeMax RubberBand ball.

Yeah…

(sound of banging head on wall)

It gets worse after this… (Sound of screaming) The kids are permanently brain-drained BUT THEIR TEACHERS WILL RE-EDUCATE THEM.

(Sounds of screams followed by sounds of retching)

Second Comic: The Adventures Of Kool-Aid Man.


In the 1980s Marvel and Kool-Aid teamed up for a comic book series. In this comic book Kool-Aid man is chasing after a villian named SCORCH, but since he is incapable of using doors he breaks through countless walls: Leaving massive damage behind him whereever he goes.

This only ran six issues…

GEEZE I WONDER WHY?

Third Comic: LIBERALITY FOR ALL




In this comic the LIBERALS (Boo Hiss Hiss) have taken over the country and the U.S.A. HAS GONE TO H-LL!

This comic from 2005 depicts the U.S.A. in 2021 in which LIBERALS have won the elections and , the U.S.A. is now a dystopian hell in which ONLY the conservatives are fighting for freedom….


THIS is Fox News Sean Hannity with a robotic arm. He is a Freedom Fighter fighting against the Pinko Facists of the U.S.A.

He is aided by…


G. Gordon. Liddy. Conservative talk show host and Watergate Conspirator. He and Hannity run the underground Freedom Of Information League, or F.O.I.L.

Oh, and the President of the U.S.A. is Hillary Clinton and VP Michael Moore.

Fourth Comic: JOHNNY TURBO spokesman for the makers of the Turbo Duo gaming system.



THIS corporate spokeshero for TTI, that marketed the Turbo Duo , had his adventures plugged into gaming magazines to promote the Turbo Duo. In them he violently opposed anybody who preferred Sega Genesis over Turbo Duo and came off looking like the weirdo uncle nobody wants to talk about. The system went under in 1995 due to lack of sales.

Fifth Comic: Brent Rinehart’s political campaign comic.

In 2008 Oklahoma county Commissioner candidate Brett Rinehart sent out with his campaign literature a very cruedly drawn black and white comic…


In this he lays out his life, with Satan (Pictured above) angry at him because Brett was against homosexuality. And the comic became even loonier as it went on.

Rinehart came in dead last in the election, and was later prosecuted for fraud and money laundering.

Sixth Comic: CAPTAIN AL COHOL.


During the 70s and 80s the government of the Northwest Territories of Canada released a series of promotional comics about a DRUNKEN Superhero named AL COHOL, and all of the horrible things that happened to him because of his drunkeness.

He wanders around Canada getting blind stinking drunk and having one tragedy after another happening to him because of it.

Like his girlfriend being run over by a Musk Ox stampede…


Accidentally incinerating his space family…

And STILL keeps on drinking.

AUTHORS EDIT: For those who want to read these comics , try the online comics site
Now, don’t get me wrong, I am all for teaching children about sex, and healthy attitudes and also teaching them their vaginas are called vaginas and not “foo foos” and their penises are called penises not “peckers” etc.

I think it’s imperative to teach them when age appropriate and to answer questions they have in a manner that suits the child.

What I do not agree with are the illustrations in this fucking book.

I was handed it when my child was 3. I tossed it in the bin without a second thought.


Who in their right fucking minds makes sex looks so fun for children? And on childrens toys.

This is not the way I’ll be teaching my child.

I like the book, the way it’s worded but those illustrations should not be there.

I’d much rather scientific illustrations that don’t make it look all fun and exciting. Just factual and simple.

My sons five now and I’m still furious that somebody’s gave me this damn book.
I’m genuinely more surprised that more people don’t recognize this book as being as disturbing as it really is. First written in 1945, it’s since become the third best selling hardcover children's book in all the English language.

The long and short of the story is that there’s this little train called Tootle, who’s a really great train, and gets all sorts of high marks and grades in his coursework. His schooling involves stopping at red flags and proceeding at green flags, and making sure to stay on the rails. He does extremely well, as he works towards his dream of becoming the Flyer on the New York-Chicago route.

However, it seems as though Tootle has a “problem” : He absolutely adores going off the rails to play in the meadows and frolic through the fields.


So the town comes together to conduct and execute a nefarious plan, with the intention being to stop Tootles from conducting this recalcitrant behavior once and for all.

All the townsfolk hide in the bushes that tootles frequents and hold up red flags wherever he goes, with the intention of manipulating him back to the rails where he belongs.


From this traumatizing experience, Tootles learns his lesson of conformity, receives praise from his peers and the townsfolk, and becomes the Flyer on the New York-Chicago route. Years later, he even grows up to repeat this message of blind obedience to higher authority to the newer locomotives, by repeating “Stay on the rails, no matter what."

When my dad first read this to me as a child, he could hardly finish it before he set it aside in disgust and bashfully asked if he could find a better children’s book to read to me. It might have just been that Dad grew up as a pot smoking hippie, but for whatever reason, he stressed to me the importance of questioning leadership, demanding respectful treatment, and rebelling against unworthy authority.

For that matter, this was the same sort of goal he hoped to achieve with the generic “Dad Jokes”. By making claims that always held the same validity and structure, (which is to say, no validity and predictable structure) he’d hoped to make me a more critical thinker from a young age, from virtually every angle in my everyday life.

“Well you see, son, little men….” “Bullshit, Dad” “Ahhh you got me.”

This story was a direct antithesis to that sort of philosophy.

What was the lesson to be gleaned from this? That finding happiness in places that other people disapprove of is bad? To do as you’re told and to never question the decisions made for you by others? To parrot the messages you’ve been fed, passing under a shoddy facade of truth, forward unto future generations forevermore?

Virtually every other story of equal merit describes the good that can come from asking questions, trying new things, and judging critically rather than succumbing to mere conformity.

Curious George stressed the negative potential of impulsive decisions, yes, but it always made a point of showing the reader that no situation was inescapable, and good could always come from trying new things.

Dr. Seuss wrote multiple books, such as “Green Eggs and Ham,” or “Oh the Places You’ll Go”, that described the good that can come from trying new things, rather than being content with the mediocre humdrum of everyday life, while still keeping your moral compass and better judgement intact.

So what’s the deal with Tootle the fucking train?!?!