Where do I get second hand books online in India?
Photo Courtesy: Buy Second Hand,Old,Used Books Online in India | UsedBooksFactory

I stumbled upon this new startup, Buy Second Hand,Old,Used Books Online in India | UsedBooksFactory . I was a bit hesitant initally, but saw their good reviews and placed my order. I was very happy with the book’s quality and got a personalized handwritten welcome note. Kudos to their service !

They have wide categories as well, which other second hand book websites don’t have. They give frequent COUPON codes which have attractive discounts.

PROS:

* Website is in https - Trustable since its secured
* Positive reviews on Google and Facebook - 4.7 plus out of 5
* Online payment gateways - Credit card, Debit card, Net Banking
* Shipment Tracking - DTDC courier tracking
* Discount Coupons

CONS

*No Cash on Delivery - This is not really a problem, since most of us transact online.

Thanks UsedBooksFactory !
Hi there,

I think the website which can get you the book which you desire to buy at the cheapest cost possible will become the best site for you. There are some small websites which are specifically dedicated to buying used books in India.

One of these websites which is growing at a good pace is bx-zone

It has got 2 stores

Used Book Store
Wish-Store
In its Used Book Store, people across various cities of India put up their books to sell at prices decide by them. Since the prices are decided by them, hence the discounts on books here vary from 40–100%.

When you don’t find the book you want, you can anytime place a wish in its wish-store. In this way, any seller who has that book can directly contact you and sell his book.

Note that here the buyers and sellers of the books are the individual users, readers and bibliophiles who either want to sell their books to make room for new books in their book shelves or buy some rare books to expand their book collection.

Moreover, it doesn’t charge anything from its users when they buy or sell a book. The buyer pays the entire amount to the seller which makes it completely free to use. There are no registration charges as well.

Cheers !
India is a country where more than 50% of the population is attracted towards the concept of reading and they have developed this habit over the years. Thus, there are various platforms in India which provide access to second hand novels online. Here I would like to bring to your notice, the website, MyPustak.


MyPustak is India’s first online platform which works towards making education available to all, across the geographical and social boundaries.This is made possible by providing free books to those who have the desire to read but lack of resources to buy. This is a great initiative and all we need is your support.
There are few small stores from where you can get second hand books online.

Some of them function as a listing website where they connect buyers and sellers. (Almost same as OLX/Quikr). Some of them work as online bookstores like Amazon/Flipkart and you can directly buy from them.

Listing down all the places where you can search the same (courtesy - multiple threads):

Platforms working similar to OLX/Quikr:

StudentDesk - Has mostly college books.

Lenro - Works as a lending platform where you can lend, borrow and exchange books

Bookadda - Takes a slightly different approach. Authenticates you from Facebook.

Mycollegeadda - Has college books.

Platforms working similar to an E-com store:

AbeRuk - Good assortment. Just got funded

Junglee- Part of Amazon India. Assortment of 17K+ books.

Bookchor - Varied inventory

Bucketbolt - Sells mostly Academic Books.

TheCollegeStore - Sells mostly Academic books

TossBooks - Has Academic as well as Novels content.

Yobooks - Varied Assortment

Infibooks - Assortment decent.

Bibiliofreaks - Decent and varied assortment.

Some of these websites may not cover an exhaustive list of pincodes. You might want to check which all places they cover. Also, if you are a little wary of using them, probably place a COD order.
IndiaReads.com is a website that allows you to rent books as well as buy them out. You have to pay an initial deposit, and if you return the book within the stipulated time periods, then you get a refund after deducting the rent amount. If you do not return the book, then it is equivalent to purchasing the book. 

I recently also came across the website "http://friendsofbooks.com" which sells second-hand books, though I have not personally availed their services.
Everyone today read a book. Be it, Someone who is in school, college, or even the one who is preparing for the competitive exams. We know, It’s not prudent often to buy a new book. Okay, let me justify my point. So, you need to read it for say, 1 year or be it 2 or 3 and after that you are going to add another few Kilograms to your bookshelf. So why not buy a second-hand copy of the same, saving a few bucks. I mean who don’t want to save some money !!

After going through a few alternatives, I’d like to suggest Starter Group. They are an e-commerce business store of second hand and New books in Delhi and deliver books at every state of India also out of India too like Indonesia, Dubai, China etc. Most intriguingly they offer a gamut of books belonging to Beauty And Personal Care, School Level, Engineering, Management, Competitive exams, novels. All of these can be bought easily through their website, also there is no need to worry for the transaction process as they offer fully secure transaction, accepting almost every card, net banking and above all Cash On Delivery is also available. For every order you will get tracking id also on your email which you provided during your order processing.

Just visit Starter Group and no matter what reader you are, this site has its own wide collection and will definitely help you find yours and get all the books delivered at your home.
What about getting the second hand books for FREE of cost? Unbelievable, right? But this dream of every readers just came true with MyPustak. Well, MyPustak is an online platfrom where you can get any desired book for FREE, within India. Why so? Because they want to create a network of readers and make India fully educated, thus providing the pre owned books for FREE. Do visit MyPustak and explore their collection.

Happy reading. :)
Hello Friends

Books are always a mentor to get knowledge, we all are in India, grown up reading books.

Finding the books which we are looking for is not so harder than earlier, now we can get our desired books easily at online platforms.

Not only new books, now used or second-hand books are also easily available on the internet to purchase.

used books selling trend online is now growing and lots of online portals are providing second-hand books online to their customers at an affordable price.

I was also surprised once I had purchased a used book from one of the online websites of books.

I had tried to purchase one book at the offline market, but unable to find it, after getting no response from the local market, I approached to the online platform and start searching my desired book which was “The Diary of a Young Girl”.

I have searched on various platforms like Amazon, Bookchor, Used book factory, Kitabay etc.

Whereas I have compared the price and found the cheapest price on Kitabay.com.

And the experience was very good while the online transaction.

I was not so confident while making payment on this new site, whereas I have reached to cart and didn’t transmit at a single glance.

After a few minutes, I got an email from the website stating trouble ordering your order, please feel free to call us for any further query or concern.

I called them, and confirm that the platform is safe to make an online payment, and I made the same.

Within a few days like 3–4 days, I got my book in very good condition, and my overall experience was good as well as their customer care was also very helpful throughout my transaction.

And even I got confirmation from their end for replacement in case of an issue with the product.

Even the packing was also awesome, I was surprised once I got the parcel and open it.

That was really a good experience for me to purchase the used book from Kitabay.com

