If you could write a letter to any fictional character, what and who would you write?

Dear Ross,

I know you had three failed marriages but none of them was your fault. (Taking the wrong name was slightly your fault.)

I still love you more than anyone in Friends.

You're the one who taught me the difference between your and you're :D, who and whom
If you could write a letter to any fictional character, what and who would you write?

I'd like to sit with you and hear all about the theories of evolution, paleontology, meteors, methane gas, unagi and what not. Just to see the excitement and thrill on your face when you talk about these stuffs. 
You're a great friend, brother, lover, father and a Professor. Had I been your student, I would've secured an A+ just by reminding "I love you" at the end of every class.

You taught me the value of true friendship, how to give up small little things to make others happy. You're a gentleman. :)

Thank You for everything

Lata
Dear Pad,

I first saw you when I was 5 or 6, in my mother's almirah. You were soft, glossy and I played with you until my mother came and scolded me badly for touching your blue packet.

You were a mystery for me before I came to know in my 8th standard that only girls use it. They were relating that with the inner garments, some item called panty and I also began thinking why were they giggling so much. Then I came to know they were actually meaning Pad---->Panty---->Vagina a.k.a sexual sort of thing.

Still I was about to know your main function. Only then when my cousin sister's white dress literally turned to a red one, I came to know who you were. Because her mother was very angry with her, not for the red colour but she did not use you at the proper time. I was 13-14 then.

I learnt about you more in my 10th-12th standard. I read what menstrual cycle means and its significance in our normal life. I started co-relating you with the cycle. Hence I started respecting you. Later when I was appearing for Higher Secondary I almost knew everything regarding you. Later when I started my graduation, I came to know you are the best friend of a girl in those 4–5 days of extreme pain, bad mood, muscle cramps, headaches, etc. I started thinking that we, boys did not have these problems, resulting in a great relief for us. Once a very close friend of mine(girl) told me how she bore the consequences in a metro when she was out of Pads and all the guys staring at her. I felt bad.

You are someone I will never need. Atleast for this life. But thank you being here. When the maker created you for mankind. Still a massive population in the world strives to meet you in their Period days. They miss you a lot Pad, sometimes you cost beyond their limits. In rural areas, still, many do not recognize you as a friend. Can you just imagine the percentage, it's just 86%.

Lastly I want to convey to you regards, love and thanks for promoting peace in our beautiful world. Because you are one of those rarest things which are not measured by the religions. Everybody needs you. Thank you very much to help me in my internal exams. How? Because my friend needed it badly that time, and she was unable to carry her heavy bag, so I carried it till the washroom, she quickly snatched you out from the bag and thereafter, for this little help, she helped me till the last minute of the exam. I studied absolutely nothing, for that exam.

And you were damn soft. I still remember.

With love and regards,

Anirban.

Dear Harry Potter,

I love your series, but don't think you deserved to star in it. Here're a few reasons why:

You had no business being the protagonist of a wonderfully written series. Let's face it, we both know that you weren't as good as you were touted to be. If five death eaters came to your house with the intention of molesting Ginny, the best you could probably do is, "Expelliarmus!" And of course, hope that all their wands share the same core as yours. Perhaps that or the hope that the other people's wands would come flying to you, owing to some fortunate technicality.

At least if you were well-mannered, I could've forgiven you your limitations, but you weren't, were you? You didn't mind often breaking into rage tantrums and yelling at Hermione and Ron, the two people who saved your posterior on numerous occasions. You were a right git in the Order of Phoenix, and wanted to be taken far more seriously than your age, skill, and experience merited at all times. It was partly your responsibility that Sirius was killed; if you'd not been a foul-mouthed sneaky student, Snape could've taught you occlumency. But no, you wouldn't let that. I liked you in the first three books. The older you got, the more unlikeable you became; quite a stark contrast to Hermione and Ron, really (Hermione especially).

You had a good heart, I'll give you that. However, do you know who else had a good heart? Lupin, Sirius, Ron, Hermione, Molly, Arthur, Tonks, Fred, George, Cedric, Charlie, Moody... you get the idea. All of them were more skillful than you ever could be. However, due to some crazy fortune, you became The One. Why? Because you were lucky to be the son of a couple, who themselves were chosen on a whim by Voldemort. Your first achievement, 'defeating Voldemort as a child', was a fitting precedent of what was to come your way; much fame and adulation for victories that you often didn't play a big part in.

And don't even get me started about how fortunate you were. You were probably more fortunate than Jack Whittaker (lottery winner). You didn't understand why Quirrell's skin peeled away when you touched him in the Philosopher's Stone. The phoenix miraculously came your way in the Chamber of Secrets, saving your apologetic ass. In the Prisoner of Azkaban, you were miraculously able to conjure a full-blooded patronus not because you were skilled, but because 'you knew you could', thanks to Hermione's time-turner. In the Goblet of Fire, your 'expelliarmus' came to your rescue, owing to the wands sharing the same core; a fact you had no clue about. In the Order of the Phoenix, you took everybody on an impulsive, suicidal mission that resulted in the death of Sirius, and got away when Dumbledore came to protect you. You even tried an embarrassing unforgivable curse on Bellatrix who made a mockery of you before proceeding to gambol away. In the Half-Blood Prince, you saw Dumbledore doing all the hard work, saw him being killed, and chased Snape like a lunatic, only to be told that he is the Half-Blood Prince. If it weren't for Dumbledore's freezing charm, you'd most probably have acted impulsively again, and gotten yourself into serious trouble again. In the Deathly Hallows, just as Voldemort was about to send you to the dogs, you escaped by the technicality of the ownership of the Elder Wand.

I could even get myself to forgive you for all this; but the utterly ridiculous way in which you addressed Voldemort before the climactic duel... that really rustled my jimmies. You called him by his real name! God damn it! The only person who earned the right to call him that was Dumbledore! You had the nerve to treat him like he was a small child; like somehow you considered yourself his equal. Among several silly things you mentioned when you were trash-talking at the end (before the technicality of the ownership of the wand would save you again), you said:
"You never saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you, Riddle?"


"Think, and try for some remorse, Riddle."


"Be a man. . . try. . . Try for some remorse..."


"You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you?"


"I know things you don't know, Tom Riddle."

Such condescension, Harry. And you weren't even worthy of it. If it were me in the Dark Lord's place, I'd have said, "Silencio" even before you could begin trash-talking. I bet you wouldn't know the counter-curse to make yourself talk again. "Dear Hermione, could you please help me? Yes, I'm the One, but I'm not too proficient with even simple curses."
In any case, as the Dark Lord so efficiently put it, "He was nothing, ever, but a boy who relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!"

Never mind though. I hope you live a fine life with Ginny, another super-smart girl who deserved better than the person whose hype she succumbed to, when she was little.
Oh, and Ron, if you're reading, you did well; in more ways than one.

Regards,
Sudhir Srinivasan
My dearest Tom, 
I'm sorry I cheered for Jerry when I was a kid. I'm sorry I considered you the bad guy. I'm so sorry that I misunderstood you. 

When I look back now, I see the reality. I see all the atrocities you've suffered. I can finally see that Jerry wasn't the victim. Instead, he was the master manipulator, the evil mouse, with a cute little face. It breaks my heart that so many kids across the world thought of you as the bad person just because you were trying to do your job, and keep your house mouse-free. 

On behalf of all the children, I apologize to you. I hope you catch Jerry, and beat the $hit outta him. 

Dear Severus Snape,

You taught us to never judge people without knowing their full story. You taught us to love unconditionally. You proved that it is possible to achieve something that others cannot even dream of, like lying to Voldemort for so many years, if you are determined enough and have confidence in yourself.

You taught us to keep fighting till the very last breath, if the cause is worth fighting for. You taught us to die for the cause, if it is worth dying for.

You took in everyone's hatred without deviating even slightly from your mission. You continued to protect Hogwarts from all kinds of evil even though everyone believed you were a traitor.

You taught us that true love has no limits. True love involves struggle, true love involves sacrifice.

You showed that not all Slytherins are evil. You proved that there are people in this world who are so good that they do not want any recognition. They just want to selflessly keep doing their good deeds. But you did get the recognition that you deserved. Our only regret is that the recognition came too late. You will be remembered and loved.

Always.
