If you had to have a fictional character replace your mother, who would you choose?
I never knew my mother. Growing up, it was just Father and myself. Father would never speak of her, he said it was best to forget her. “It is too sad to discuss,” he said. “Knock on wood, she is gone.”

So I lived a boring, suburban life, and wondered why my mother abandoned me. Every other girl had a mother to care for them and teach them girly things. I had my awkward and overprotective father, who foisted me off on my health teacher when puberty hit.

Still, my life wouldn’t have changed if I hadn’t been smoking weed in the garden. I heard my father’s car, so I tried to crush the evidence. Unfortunately, the drought made the grass dry, sparking a fire around my father’s favorite hawthorn tree, the one with the strange carvings. The flames licked the bark and I knew I would be grounded for life.

I ran to get the hose and as I returned, I heard the sound of laughter. Standing next to the tree, in the middle of the flames was a tall woman, dressed in the oddest clothing and…standing in flames.

Without thinking, I turned the hose on her, hoping to spare her the flames. She just glared at me, a look that chilled me to the bone. This was no ordinary person, but whatever she was, she didn’t like me. “Arrogant little mortal,” she hissed, before blinking. “Elah?”

“You know my name?” I asked, feeling very certain she was still debating how to murder me.

“Of course. A mother always knows,” she said with a gleaming smile. She waved her hands over the flames and they coiled around her like snakes. “I am Hela, Queen of Death and Mistress of Darkness, Ruler of Niflheim. Your father was my high priest once, before he locked me away in that tree on orders from the All-Father. But you freed me, my darling. Now, I shall have my revenge.”

I gulped. “Please, don’t hurt him,” I begged.

Hela’s eyes narrowed. “You are not loyal to me,” she said coldly. “How very disappointing.”

“I did it to protect Elah,” Father said, pale. He stepped out of the house, his hands up. “The All-Father had our baby. He said it was your life or hers. I did what I had to, to protect her. She was still mortal, she couldn’t survive. You could.”

Hela’s eyes narrowed in thought. “You did well…” she finally said. “But why didn’t you free me earlier?”

“Only the bloodline of Odin could unseal,” Father explained. “And only if done in complete innocence. That’s why I didn’t water the field for days. I knew Elah would try to get high and be clumsy enough to drop it.”

Hela turned the flames. “And now, my princess of Death can be fully anointed, her godly powers unleashed. Now, we shall finish what they started. We shall rule the Nine Realms.”

“But I have a Krav Maga class to go to,” I protested.

“You will have the powers of the Gods, you don’t need Krav Maga,” Father said, rolling his eyes. “She’s obsessed, it’s a bit insane.”

“What is Krav Maga?” Hela asked. “Dark magic?”

“Sorta. Want to come to a class?”
