Which are the best sarcastic lines in the Harry Potter series?
Harry's best-

Conversation between Harry and Snape-
Harry: Yes
snape: Yes sir.
Harry: There is no need to call me sir, professor.

Umbridge: Potter, do something! Tell them I mean no harm.
Harry: I'm sorry, Professor. But I must not tell lies.

Skeeter: I wonder if you could give me a quick word? How was (blah blah )
Harry: Yeah, you can have a word, goodbye.

Hagrid (about Aragog): It's the eyes, I reckon. They unnerve some folk.
Harry: Not to mention the pincers *clicking sounds*

[Reading Unfogging the Future] 
Ron: Right, you've got a crooked sort of cross…That means you're going to have 'trials and suffering' -- sorry about that -- but there's a thing that could be a sun… hang on… that means 'great happiness'… so you're going to suffer but be very happy…
Harry: You need your Inner Eye tested, if you ask me…

Harry and Draco sass-
Draco: Sure you can manage that broom, Potter?
Harry: Yeah, reckon so
Draco: Got plenty of special features, hasn't it? Shame it doesn't come with a parachute-in case you get too near a dementor. (Crabbe and Goyle sniggered)
Harry: Pity you can't attach an extra arm to yours, Malfoy. Then it could catch the Snitch for you.

Vernon Dursley: Listening to the news again?
Harry: Well, it changes everyday, you see.

Other BAMF lines by Harry-
(taken from Harry Potter and the Times He Was Brilliantly Sarcastic
) 
“Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher. There was just that minor drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his head!”

[Trelawney homework time]“Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the other night,” said Ron, screwing up his face in an effort to remember. “What do you think that means?”
“Probably that you’re going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or something,” said Harry.

“Wow, I wonder what it’d be like to have a difficult life?” said Harry sarcastically.

“Cool name,” said Harry, grinning, “but you’ll always be Ickle Diddykins to me.”

Rowling pulling a Yo mama-
“You know your mother, Malfoy? The expression on her face - like she’s got dung under her nose? Is she like that all the time or just because you were with her?”

“And they’d [the Death Eaters] love to have me,” said Harry sarcastically. “We’d be best pals if they didn’t keep trying to do me in.”

“This is night, Diddykins. That’s what we call it when it goes all dark like this.”

“Brilliant! It’s Potions last thing on Friday! Snape won’t have the time to poison us all!”

“I don’t know who Maxime thinks she’s kidding. If Hagrid’s half-giant, she definitely is. Big bones… the only thing that’s got bigger bones than her is a dinosaur.”

Ron

Ron to unmasked Pettigrew: I let you sleep in my bed!

After the epic dragon ride of book 7
Ron: Well, I don't now how to break this to you, but they might have noticed we broke into Gringotts.

Hermione: Stop moving, both of you. This is devil's snare! You have to relax. If you don't, it'll only kill you faster!
Ron: Kill us faster? Oh, now I can relax!

Ron: Can you believe our luck? Of all the trees we could've hit, he had to get one that hits back.

Ron: "A Study of Hogwarts' Prefects and Their Later Careers." That sounds fascinating.

Professor Trelawney: Would anyone like me to help interpret the shadowy realms within their orb?
Ron (whispering to Harry): I don't need help. It's obvious what this means. There's going to be loads of fog tonight.

(More Trelawney homework)Hermione: You seem to be drowning twice.
Ron: Oh, am I? I'd better change one of them to getting trampled by a rampaging Hippogriff.

Hermione: Ancient Egyptians used to worship cats, you know.
Ron: Yeah, along with the dungbeetle.

Fred and George-

Molly : Fred, you next. 
George : He's not Fred, I am! 
Fred : Honestly, woman. You call yourself our mother. 
Molly : [to Fred] Oh, I'm sorry, George. 
Fred : I'm only joking, I am Fred!

Fred : Well done, Harry. Wood's just told us. 
Ron: Fred and George are on the team, too. Beaters. 
George : Our job is to make sure that you don't get bloodied up too bad. Can't make any promises, of course. Rough game, Quidditch. 
Fred : Brutal, but no one's died in years. Someone will vanish occasionally, but they'll turn up in a month or two! 
 
Fred (about Harry in CoS) : Look everyone, it's the heir of Slytherin! 
George: Be careful! He's a seriously evil wizard.

(Same context) Fred: Oh get out of the way, Percy. Harry's in a hurry.
George: Yeah, he's off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his fanged servant.

Oliver Wood: We play our game, Hufflepuff doesn't stand a chance. We're stronger, quicker and smarter. 
Fred: And not to mention they're dead scared that Harry'll petrify them if they fly anywhere near him. 
Oliver : Well, that too.

Fred : Anyone can speak Troll, all you have to do is point and grunt.

Ron: [as Harry lays unconscious] Looks a bit peaky, doesn't he? 
Fred : Peaky? What'd you expect him to look like? He fell fifty feet. 
George : Yeah, c'mon, Ron. We'll walk you off the Astronomy Tower and see how you come out looking.
[Harry: Probably a right sight better than he normally does.]

Molly (after Ron becomes prefect): That's all in the family!
George: Who are Fred and I? Next door neighbours?

Fred (about Voldemort): He can move faster than Severus Snape confronted with shampoo.

Dolores Umbridge speech : I hope that we all are going to be good very good friends. 
Fred and George: That's bloody likely.

Mad-Eye Moody: [handing out Polyjuice Potion] Fair warning, it tastes like goblin piss. 
Fred : Have lots of experience with that, do you, Mad-Eye? 
[Moody glares] 
Fred : Just trying to diffuse the tension.

Fred : How you feeling, Georgie? 
George : ...Saint-like. 
Fred : ...Come again? 
George : Saint-like. 
[points to ear] 
George : I'm holey.
Fred: The whole wide world of ear-related humour, and you go for holey?

At Fred and George's store (WWW)
The right-hand window was covered with a gigantic poster, purple like those of the Ministry, but emblazoned with flashing yellow letters: 
WHY ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT 
YOU-KNOW-WHO? 
YOU SHOULD BE WORRYING ABOUT 
U-NO-POO — 
THE CONSTIPATION SENSATION 
THAT’S GRIPPING THE NATION! 
Harry started to laugh. He heard a weak sort of moan beside him and looked around to see Mrs. 
Weasley gazing, dumbfounded, at the poster. Her lips moved silently, mouthing the name “U-No-
Poo.” 
“They’ll be murdered in their beds!” she whispered. 
“No they won’t!” said Ron, who, like Harry, was laughing. “This is brilliant!” (submitted by Vedashree Bhishma)

My favorite-
Fred and George: [after the Seven Potters transformation] Wow, we're identical!

Harry: I won't cooperate (when moody explains the seven decoy Harrys plan)

Fred/George: There's the plan foiled! How can we proceed without your cooperation... 13 against one bloke, who can't even use magic... What are the odds.(suggested by Urvika Pawar)

[A few good ones from other characters]

Malfoy

“I think I’ll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find – how about – up a tree?”

“You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?” said Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. “It’s people they feel sorry for. See, there’s Potter, who’s got no parents, then there’s the Weasleys, who’ve got no money – you should be on the team, Longbottom, you’ve got no brains!

“You’re in luck, Weasley, Potter’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!”

“Longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than Weasley, and that’s saying something.”

Hermione
“D’you think I’m going to stand out here and wait for Filch to catch me? If he finds all three of us I’ll tell him the truth, that I was trying to stop you, and you can back me up.”

Ron: And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is. It’d be safe to ask them.
Hermione: Very safe, as they’re both dentists.

Sirius to Remus
"Tell them whatever you like! But make it quick Remus, I want to commit the murder I was imprisoned for."

Professor McGonagall

[After Harry and Ron are late for the first class] Well, thank you for that assessment, Mr Weasley. Perhaps it would be more useful if I were to transfigure Mr Potter and yourself into a pocket watch. That way, one of you might be on time.

Dumbledore
Albus Dumbledore: Let us not deprive Molly any longer of the chance to deplore how thin you are.

And now for some cosmic irony!
Professor Trelawney: The study of Divination will give you the rare gift of SIGHT! (stands up, and promptly bumps into her table)



Off the top of my head, I’ll go with these ones

Sorcerer’s Stone

“No thanks. The toilet’s never had anything as horrible as your head down it -it might be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could work out what he’d said.
“Hagrid, you live in a wooden house.” (Hermione, protesting Hagrid’s decision to nurture a dragon)
“I don’t know, sir. I think Hermione does, though, why don’t you try her?”
“Potter! Why didn’t you tell him not to add the quills? Thought he’d make you look good if he got it wrong, eh? That’s another point you’ve lost for Gryffindor.”
“We’re not stupid - we know we’re called Gred and Forge.”
Chamber of Secrets

“Maybe he’s ill!” “Maybe he’s left” “Or he might have been sacked! I mean, everyone hates him—” “Or maybe,” said a very cold voice right behind them, “he’s waiting to hear why you two didn’t arrive on the school train.”
“That would be a cheerful visit. “Hello, Hagrid. Tell us, have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle lately?”
“Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming through…”
“Yeah, he’s nipping off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his fanged servant”
Prisoner of Azkaban

“I dreamed I was buying new shoes last night,” said Ron. “What d’ya think that’s gonna mean?” “Probably that you’re going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or something,” said Harry.
“Yeah, we’ll call you. If we ever need someone mental.”
“…I told her I didn’t care if it threw you off, as long as you caught the Snitch first.”
“If you made a better rat than a human, it’s not much to boast about, Peter.”
Goblet of Fire

“Good Lord, Arthur,” he said softly. “What did you have to sell to get seats in the Top Box? Surely your house wouldn’t have fetched this much.”
“Congratulations, Harry! I wonder if you could give me a quick word?” “Yeah, you can have a word,” said Harry savagely. “Good-bye.”
“Twitchy little ferret, aren’t you, Malfoy?”
“I thought it sounded a bit like Percy singing…maybe you’ve got to attack him while he’s in the shower, Harry.”
He forced Hermione to show Snape her teeth-she was doing her best to hide them with her hands, though this was now difficult as they had grown down past her collar. Snape looked coldly at Hermione, then said, “I see no difference.”
Order of the Phoenix

“Listening to the news! Again?” “Well it changes every day, you see,” said Harry.
“I should have made my meaning plainer,” said Professor McGonagall, turning at last to look at Umbridge directly in the eyes. “He has achieved high marks in every Defense Against the Dark Arts test set by a competent teacher.”
“Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher. There was just that minor drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back of his head.”
Half-Blood Prince

“Oh, very good,” interrupted Snape, his lip curling. “Yes, it is easy to see that nearly six years of magical education have not been wasted on you, Potter. ‘Ghosts are transparent.’ …”A five-year-old could have told us as much.”
And finally, Voldemort’s last stand:

“Potter doesn’t mean that. Who are you going to use as a shield today?”
Savage AF