Which line(s) from a novel made you fall in love with it?
Books are powerful because it contains words. Words, they are more powerful than any weapon in the world. If you don’t believe think about Hitler; he ruled by words.

Anyways, to your question I’ve listed out few words that I liked from the books that I’ve read. These images are royalty free that I’ve searched and write down my favourite lines that suites most for the picture. As per Chines proverb “A picture says a thousand words”. It’s my attempt to make you understand what the line means(not literally of course).

Here the list starts:

Everything is possible. The impossible just takes longer- Digital Fortress by Dan Brown
Wuthering Heights.
I fell in love with Healthcliff after reading it for the first time. I bet that anyone who would have read Wuthering Heights would have definitely shed a tear or two when they had read few chapters. These lines are few of those lines that made me feel the character of the person saying these lines.

Chapter 9 (“It would degrade me to marry Heathcliff”)

'This is nothing,' cried she: 'I was only going to say that heaven did not seem to be my home; and I broke my heart with weeping to come back to earth; and the angels were so angry that they flung me out into the middle of the heath on the top of Wuthering Heights; where I woke sobbing for joy. That will do to explain my secret, as well as the other. I've no more business to marry Edgar Linton than I have to be in heaven; and if the wicked man in there had not brought Heathcliff so low, I shouldn't have thought of it. It would degrade me to marry Heathcliff now; so he shall never know how I love him: and that, not because he's handsome, Nelly, but because he's more myself than I am. Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same; and Linton's is as different as a moonbeam from lightning, or frost from fire.'
Chapter 17 (“We'll see if one tree won't grow as crooked as another”)

He had the hypocrisy to represent a mourner: and previous to following with Hareton, he lifted the unfortunate child on to the table and muttered, with peculiar gusto, 'Now, my bonny lad, you are mine! And we'll see if one tree won't be as crooked as another, with the same wind to twist it!'
Famous dialogues from Wuthering Heights.

2. The Scarlet Pimpernel.

These lines by Lady Blakeley shows the kind of emotions a woman goes through when there is a communication problem or when there is a wall between a husband and wife.

Had he but turned back then, and looked out once more on to the rose-lit garden, she would have seen that which would have made her own sufferings seem but light and easy to bear--a strong man, overwhelmed with his own passion and despair. Pride had given way at last, obstinacy was gone: the will was powerless. He was but a man madly, blindly, passionately in love and as soon as her light footstep had died away within the house, he knelt down upon the terrace steps, and in the very madness of his love he kissed one by one the places where her small foot had trodden, and the stone balustrade, where her tiny hand had rested last.
Baroness Orczy, The Scarlet Pimpernel

3. The Tale of Two cities.

These lines by Sydney Carton for the woman he loves who is a wife to an aristocrat can break anyone's heart. He sacrifices his life for saving her husband.

“I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. “I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.” “For you, and for any dear to you, I would do anything.
4. Little Women.

The story of 4 sisters can teach us a lot about family bonding and how they have each other's back. How they were 4 different kind of personalities and their mom's upbringing shines all the way.

“Love Jo all your days, if you choose, but don't let it spoil you, for it's wicked to throw away so many good gifts because you can't have the one you want”.
“Don't laugh at the spinsters, dear girls, for often very tender, tragic romances are hidden away in the hearts that beat so quietly under the sober gowns, and many silent sacrifices of youth, health, ambition, love itself, make the faded faces beautiful in God's sight. Even the sad, sour sisters should be kindly dealt with, because they have missed the sweetest part of life, if for no other reason”.
5. Jane Eyre.

The confidence with which she deals her life awed me. I read it for the first time in my 10th std summer holidays and had a tough time understanding many words as the English was quite hard and also because it is my first big novel and the characters confused me, but I loved it.

“Do you think I am an automaton? — a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from my cup? Do you think, because I am poor, obscure, plain, and little, I am soulless and heartless? You think wrong! — I have as much soul as you — and full as much heart! And if God had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as it is now for me to leave you. I am not talking to you now through the medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh: it is my spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through the grave, and we stood at God's feet, equal — as we are!”
“I do not think, sir, you have any right to command me, merely because you are older than I, or because you have seen more of the world than I hatimyour claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience”.
6. To kill a Mockingbird.

"Mockingbirds don't do one thing except make music for us to enjoy. They don't eat up people's gardens, don't nest in corn cribs, they don't do one thing but sing their hearts out for us. That's why it's a sin to kill a mockingbird."
"You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view. Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it."
I can add a lot of lines from many novels but it can make the answer really lengthy.

Thank you for the question. Happy reading everyone. :-)
When it comes to speak about things like food, sleep, novels, clothes, stationery items, I can't just stop mentioning one line. All I can get is bunches of paragraphs to write about till my hand pains and of course till your head spins. (Just imagine what happens if I start my chatterbox version to ON mode. :p)

So let me quote few of my favorite lines from favorite books:

Great expectations by Charles Dickens:

“Suffering has been stronger than all other teaching, and has taught me to understand what your heart used to be. I have been bent and broken, but - I hope - into a better shape.”

This relates my life. I can recite this line even if I am asked to do so when I am asleep.

I remember this incident vividly. It was in my engineering second year, I felt very low that I was not doing well in end semester exams. Usually, I never talk about my problems to my parents. On the last day of my exams, I couldn’t stop myself from crying. while my mom was combing my hair, i spoke to her in low voice that I was not doing well in studies. I told her that I am gonna fail.

Then she made me remember a line from the book “The Alchemist.”

“The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.”

Sometimes these words make me fearless to face failure when I am about to try something new.

“THE FAULT IN OUR STARS” is my all time favorite. Honestly, I fell in love with Augustus Waters and I literally cried when he died.

When they were in Amsterdam, he says, “Some tourists think Amsterdam is a city of sin, but in truth it is a city of freedom. And in freedom, most people find sin.”

Yes, people find sin in freedom when they don’t know how to use it properly. And for some people, doing mistakes is also a sin. When we have freedom, we explore things. At times, we might be wrong. But it is a part of journey. Instead, people bind themselves with unknown bondages.

Wait,wait, wait! you might be thinking “What did I ask and what is she telling?” Right?

:p Sorry for getting deviated though. I love every book and I love this lines most because they lift me up when no one else could.
There is this quote from Paul Sweeney which goes “You know you’ve read a good book when you turn the last page and feel a little as if you have lost a friend.” You get that feeling about The Book Thief by Markus Zusak

‘The Book Thief’ is one of those books which you will run out of adjectives describing how good it is. I've had to realign my book ratings because of it.

Set in the Nazi Germany and narrated by Death (with a capital D) which/who has a tremendous sense of humor. Some of the things Death says are so deep that they remain with you long after you have finished the book …

A set of Death’s quotes from the book are-

“I could introduce myself properly, but it's not really necessary. You will know me well enough and soon enough, depending on a diverse range of variables. It suffices to say that at some point in time, I will be standing over you, as genially as possible. Your soul will be in my arms. A color will be perched on my shoulder. I will carry you gently away. At that moment, you will be lying there (I rarely find people standing up). You will be caked in your own body. There might be a discovery; a scream will dribble down the air. The only sound I'll hear after that will be my own breathing, and the sound of the smell, of my footsteps.”
““***HERE IS A SMALL FACT ***
You are going to die.
I am in all truthfulness attempting to be cheerful about this whole topic, though most people find themselves hindered in believing me, no matter my protestations. Please, trust me. I most definitely can be cheerful. I can be amiable. Agreeable. Affable. And that's only the A's. Just don't ask me to be nice. Nice has nothing to do with me.”
“A human doesn't have a heart like mine. The human heart is a line, whereas my own is a circle, and I have the endless ability to be in the right place at the right time. The consequence of this is that I'm always finding humans at their best and worst. I see their ugly and their beauty, and I wonder how the same thing can be both. Still, they have one thing I envy. Humans, if nothing else, have the good sense to die.”
“I wanted to explain that I am constantly overestimating and underestimating the human race - that rarely do I even simply estimate it.”
“I am haunted by humans.”
“It kills me sometimes, how people die.”
“I guess humans like to watch a little destruction. Sand castles, houses of cards, that's where they begin. Their great skills is their capacity to escalate.”
“A SMALL PIECE OF TRUTH
I do not carry a sickle or scythe.
I only wear a hooded black robe when it's cold.
And I don't have those skull-like facial features you seem to enjoy pinning on me from a distance. You want to know what I truly look like? I'll help you out. Find yourself a mirror while I continue.”
“Death's Diary: 1942 -
It was a year for the ages, like 79, like 1346, to just name a few. Forget the scythe, God damn it, I needed a broom or a mop. And I needed a holiday.
(...) They say that war is death's best friend, but I must offer you a different point of view on that one. To me, war is like the new boss who expects the impossible. He stands over your shoulder repeating one thing, incessantly. 'Get it done, get it done'. So you work harder. You get the job done. The boss however, does not thank you. He asks for more.”
“Please believe me when I tell you that I picked up each soul that day as if it were newly born. I even kissed a few weary, poisoned cheeks. I listened to their last, gasping cries. Their vanishing words. I watched their love visions and freed them from their fear.”
“You see, to me, for just a moment, despite all of the colors that touch and grapple with what I see in this world, I will often catch an eclipse when a human dies.
I've seen millions of them.
I've seen more eclipses than I care to remember”
“Yes, I know it.
In the darkness of my dark beating heart,
I know. He'd have loved it alright.
You see?
Even Death Has A Heart.”
“I am not violent. I am not malicious. I am a result.”
Thank you for the A2A
I was on my way back home when this question popped up on the screen and I knew right away, I was going to write this, even when I just needed to crawl through my bed after a long-tiring day.

So, instead of writing quotes from books, I would rather mention quotes from my favorite authors and rest is up to you to ponder which book I am referring to.

Paulo Coelho

And, when you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.
It's the possibility of having a dream come true that makes life interesting.
When I had nothing to lose, I had everything. When I stopped being who I am, I found myself.
Nothing in the world is ever completely wrong. Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
There are moments when troubles enter our lives and we can do nothing to avoid them.
But they are there for a reason. Only when we have overcome them will we understand why they were there.
One is loved because one is loved. No reason is needed for loving.
There is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve: the fear of failure.
So, I love you because the entire universe conspired to help me find you.
The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.
When someone leaves, it's because someone else is about to arrive.
Waiting is painful. Forgetting is painful. But not knowing which to do is the worst kind of suffering.
Everything tells me that I am about to make a wrong decision, but making mistakes is just part of life. What does the world want of me? Does it want me to take no risks, to go back to where I came from because I didn't have the courage to say "yes" to life?
Nicholas Sparks

Love is like the wind, you can't see it but you can feel it.
I finally understood what true love meant...love meant that you care for another person's happiness more than your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be.
Sometimes you have to be apart from people you love, but that doesn't make you love them any less. Sometimes you love them more.
I love you. I am who I am because of you. You are every reason, every hope, and every dream I've ever had, and no matter what happens to us in the future, everyday we are together is the greatest day of my life. I will always be yours.
When you're struggling with something, look at all the people around you and realize that every single person you see is struggling with something, and to them, it's just as hard as what you're going through.
Nothing that’s worthwhile is ever easy. Remember that.
You are the answer to every prayer I've offered. You are a song, a dream, a whisper, and I don't know how I could have lived without you for as long as I have.
If you like her, if she makes you happy, and if you feel like you know her---then don't let her go.
John Green

You don’t get to choose if you get hurt in this world… but you do have some say in who hurts you. I like my choices
Oh I wouldn’t mind Hazel Grace. It would be a privilege to have my heart broken by you.
Some infinities are bigger than other infinities.
That’s the thing about pain. It demands to be felt.
Rumi

Yesterday I was clever, so I wanted to change the world. Today I am wise, so I am changing myself.
It’s your road and yours alone. Others may walk it with you, but no one can walk it for you.
When the world pushes you to your knees, you’re in the perfect position to pray.
Raise your words, not voice. It is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.
Life is balance of holding on and letting go..
Thanks for A2A Abhishek Pratap Singh