What are the best leadership lessons to learn from Game of Thrones?
1. "The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword." - Eddard Stark.

Don't shy away from making tough calls. And just as importantly, do the unpleasant work to follow through. As Ned reminds us, "He who hides behind executioners soon forgets what death is." Leaders who spend time in the trenches, doing the tough work, will take making tough decisions more seriously. 
 
 2. “A Lannister always pays his debts.” - Tyrion Lannister

In the workplace, the quickest way to lose respect, and power, is to promise things you can't deliver. The surest way to get people to do things for you today, is for them to trust, that you will do what you say you will, in the future. Leaders follow through on their word. When they say they are going to do something, they do it.

3. “Any man who must say ‘I am the king’ is no true king.” – Tywin Lannister

True power comes from where people believe it comes from. Not from where you say it comes from. The best leaders are followed based on the collective will, not because they say, “I am the boss.” Power and influence, often come from unexpected places.

4. “Chaos isn’t a pit. Chaos is a ladder." - Littlefinger

Chaotic times reveal a leader’s strength. When times are good, it’s easy to be the leader. Only when chaos reigns, do many leaders rise. Effective leaders aren’t thwarted by challenges. They use challenges to foist them higher. As Littefinger, highlights: "Many who try to climb fail and never get to try again. The fall breaks them.” Leaders are not broken. They continue to climb.

5. "Winter is coming." – House Stark
 
Leaders remain vigilant. The world is uncertain. The best leaders always innovate, stay strong, and plan for the future. Being prepared for the unexpected is essential. Embrace winter, especially when everyone else is distracted and basking in the sun.
Be a Jon Snow. Leadership is not about what you deserve. Lead by example, and remember that being the most qualified and capable is simply not enough. There is no one magic solution to all problems. There is no one guide to help you become a great leader. Leaders become through acclimation. Wear your weakness like an identity, and it will not be used against you.

Don't be a Jon Snow. Don't know nothing, at least know something. Don't cuddle the competition and alienate your own people. There are daggers in the dark that can stab you in the back within your own ranks. Contain your own issues before wanting to contain someone else's. You are not omnipresent like a raven. Don't be a bastard.

Be an Arya Stark. The best way to learn how to lead is to learn how it is to follow. Valar Dohaeris. All men must serve. Discover things you're good at and stick it with the pointy end. This may not be something to rely upon, but unconventional wisdom sometimes lead to special things. You don't have to abide to the norm. Don't be hounded into submission just because someone told you otherwise. Women can do things that men can, and vice versa, even in an unjust society. It is what you make of yourself that truly matters.

Don't be a Sansa Stark. Vanity is a quality you should set aside. You can't marry yourself into leadership and not know what to expect. Calculate your every decision. Leadership is something you nurture over time. Don't be lulled by little fingers in the background into doing what you're not expected to do.

Be a Tyrion Lannister. First of all, pay your debts completely, if necessary. The smallest man can cast a very large shadow. A good leader knows how and when to impose himself. Compensate your physical weakness with knowledge and drown yourself in the pursuit of it. 

Don't be a Tyrion Lannister. Do not bring personal issues into your professional life. Self-pity is the worst quality you can find in a leader. Try to minimise partaking in sinful vices and focus your strengths on things that actually matter.

Don't be a Jaime Lannister. A lion does not trouble himself with the whispers of the sheep. Reputation and public perception is a doubled-edged sword, but be careful because that sword was forged on top of the bodies of your competition, and you wouldn't want to fan the flames yourself. Know that you can be the most prodigious of all and still have the most miserable outcome. The future is not a one-way street. Do not designate yourself by who you were. Do not let those that preceded you belittle who you are. The past is what it is and the future is what you make of it.

Don't be a Cersei Lannister. Just don't.

Don't be a Daenerys Targaryen. Respect the culture that surrounds you. When in Rome, you don't necessarily have to do what the other Romans do, but it's bad character to tell a Roman aristocrat or a noble that their skirts seem womanly. And don't use the vox populi as an excuse to your own ignorance. Know that you cannot be Goody Two-Shoes, because good intentions can and may well have negative consequences. Sometimes you get the illusion of power in the palm of your hand, as if they were tangible objects laid bare to you, but these are all deceptive and can and will turn on you just as easily. Your dragons are not there to shield you from your own mistakes. They do not recognise authority. Sometimes things just aren't meant to be.
Rules are largely ornamental, not operative.  
AKA: Ned Stark is an idiot.

GoT teaches us that those who we would normally consider "heroes" in usual fiction are not that at all.  By the way, SPOILER ALERT (DUH).  

We start the series off with a character that most viewers (or readers) find instantly likable for his familiarity and nobility: Ned Stark.  He says important-sounding things about responsibility, and he looks and acts like a traditional man of honor.  "The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword," he gravely instructs his son about upholding and administering the law.  He dutifully teaches his family to be ever vigilant, because (drum roll): "Winter is coming."  When King Robert Baratheon calls on him for help, Ned drops everything to serve as his hand.  Ned rarely sacrifices his scruples to get ahead, and he remains forever a man of his word.

What you may have missed is that GoT is designed to show you what an awkward, dopey, and irresponsible character Ned really is.  GoT's treatment of Ned Stark is tantamount to a modern Don Quixote.  Everything Ned does is to further his naive world outlook that he has certain undeniable duties and that if he just follows them, everything will work out, no plan or strategy needed.  However, every step he takes is one step closer to his own destruction.

Ned starts the series off to a bang when he executes the one guy who tells him the truth about the reemergence of the White Walkers.  Ned says that it's the law, but he screws himself in the process.  Not only does he not learn about the White Walkers, but he sends a strong message to all the rest of his faithful soldiers about talking about White Walkers--who would tell Ned about them now?  Not a great plan for somebody who is supposedly all about watching out for winter.

When Robert comes to ask him to be the hand of the king, Ned kneels before him, which only serves to annoy Robert with his theatrics and his overzealousness with groveling to authority: "Damn it, Ned Stark, stand up!"  Ned doesn't understand that being a leader involves politics.  You can't just play at being a leader, and it isn't just about etiquette and formalities.

Fast forward to Ned in the capitol.  He spends most of his time getting fed up with how nobody else follows the rules, and he eventually discovers that the king's "son" Joffrey isn't.  His decides to confront the Lannisters about it, which is a simplistic strategy if it can even be called that.  Finally nearing his end, Ned stubbornly refuses to do anything except sit in the dungeon, where he rots away until he is decapitated on display.  

Ned accomplished almost nothing and lost almost everything.  Eventually, his sons and daughters are scattered and killed in fantastic fashion.  Winterfell is razed.  And seasons (and books) later, winter seems hardly any closer to arriving, although he repeated his house's mantra about an impending winter as if it were divine law.  Ned worried about all the wrong things, and because of that, he ends up with nothing.  

Really, the only things that are arguably still going well for Ned's legacy (in the current TV series) originate from the rare instances in which Ned bent the rules.  He kept Jon Snow around even though he was a bastard (although we can debate who Jon Snow really is and what Ned's true motivation for keeping him around was).  Now, Jon Snow is one of the few characters doing pretty well.  You could make a similar case about Arya.  She's definitely not having a perfect life, but she's making progress and at least she ain't dead.  She gets by relying on her sword, which her father secretly (and against custom) allowed her to take up.

So if there's a real message behind GoT (and I'm not sure that there is), I think it would have to be that rules are made to be broken.  Especially if you're a Stark.
Many inspiring quotes pertaining to leadership were asserted throughout the series (up to 5 seasons), but it has rarely happened that I could actually derive leadership lessons from what's being delivered on the screen. However, a character that has evolved as a paragon of leadership in terms of the decisions he made and the way he led is that of John Snow’s.

The two incidences where he stood out steadfastly as a leader and led from front are:

1. When wildings attacked castle black.

The brothers of night's watch were in perilous situation, having found themselves attacked by wildings from both sides of the wall. The situation was prickly and brothers of night's watch were outnumbered. What stood out is John Snow's ability to assess the situation, inspire his fellows and fight gallantly from the front. He could have stayed on top of the wall and sent other brothers to fight, but NO! He chose to be on the battlefield. He fiercely jumped out of the elevator even before it touched the ground. And wait a second! I could hardly imagine anyone with such a level-headed-hostility. Even in a horrendous scenario that brothers were in, he had this innovative idea to free his wolf so that he would prove worthy on battlefield. His knack for making a right call in tough times was evident when he said to Sam - "I need him (the wolf) more than I need you".

He was shorter in stature than a gigantic bald who ferociously charged at him with a long-sharp-axe-like weapon. He took him in his stride. He didn't even flinch for a second! He was intrepid and he must have believed that he could fight him head on. He battled and slipped the death by thin margin.

Eventually, the brothers of night's watch emerged triumphant as they could defend the wall from insurgents, thanks to Jon Snow's leadership. Any other leader would have given himself a batch of honour had he led mere 100 men to fight against thousands of wildings and yet stood victorious. But NO! He looked for larger picture and went to Mance Rayder for negotiation, having anticipated a greater challenge.

2. When John Snow voluntarily went to wildlings so as rope in their support to fight White Walkers:

To normal mind, it may appear as the stupidest of decisions. After all, who would risk the mutiny of his own people and endanger his own position as Lord Commander, but NO! He had a larger picture, larger good and a larger motif in mind. He followed his instinct despite the defiance from his own people.

Remember a scene when White Walkers attack wildings? It was nerve- wrecking, wasn't it? Jon Snow could have chickened out to Castle Black to save his own life, But Hell No! He fought again! He went back to the dilapidated tent to retrieve Dragon Glass. That was particularly a moment when he kept the collective goodwill of people at the risk of his own life - A hallmark of a great Leader.

Needless to say, it was indigestible to see him die in such an awful manner at the end of 5th season. If there's someone who perfectly personified leadership with every passing episode of the show, then he's Jon Snow

R.I.P Jon Snow! And yes, you knew nothing, yet you taught me a lot
"Chaos isn't a pit. Chaos is a ladder.
Many who try to climb it fail, and never get to try again. The fall breaks them. And some are given a chance to climb, but they refuse. They cling to the realm, or the Gods or love... illusions.
Only the ladder is real. The climb is all there is."

The ability to look at chaos straight in the eye and learn from it, if only being on the thinner side of the line that divides the people who climb the ladder from those who take it for a pit.


"Power resides where men believe it resides.
It's a trick, a shadow on the wall.
And a very small man can cast a very large shadow."

What you do matters more than who you are.


"So many vows. They make you swear and swear. Defend the King, obey the King, obey your father, protect the innocent, defend the weak. But what if your father despises the King? What if the King massacres the innocent? It's too much. No matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or another."

Sticking to rules all the time, especially if they are conflicting, isn't such a great idea after all!


"Rhaegar fought valiantly, Rhaegar fought nobly, Rhaegar fought honorably. And Rhaegar died."

Enough said!


"What we don't know is usually what gets us killed."

Ignorance is expensive.


"If you waste time trying to get people to love you, you will end up the most popular dead man in town."

Acceptance is seldom as important as taking the right, albeit tough decisions.


"When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies but the pack survives." 

It is important to keep teams together, in order to allow them to weather storms.


"Its difficult to put a leash on a dog once you have put a crown on his head"

 When awarding responsibility to someone, it has to be the right person, apart from being the correctly trained.
 The biggest lesson is that acting as noble and honestly as the Starks is the worst thing that a leader can do. As Machiavelli explained at length, virtue in the ruler is necessarily very different to virtue in the human being who doesn't have the responsibility of preserving a state. An individual, after all, can sacrifice themselves for love, truth or honour and be praised for it, but there is absolutely nothing praiseworthy in sacrificing a state for these things.

Now let's look at the Stark leaders - Ned and Rob [spoilers follow]. Ned could have kept quiet about Jamie and Cirsei's incestuous relationship, or he could have just gone straight ahead and told Robert Boratheon about it; instead, he tells Cirsei what he's about to do, giving her the chance to crush him first (in fact, forcing her to do this).  Why did he take this path? For honour and truth or something. It got his king assassinated, his own head lopped off, and his children scattered to the four winds. 

Like father, like son. Rob Stark married for love, turning Walder-Frey from an ally into an enemy. Rob then executed his most powerful vassal for executing the Lannister boys. After these two noble moves, his forces were so weak that he admitted he was losing the war, so he took the bait of attending the wedding at Walder-Frey's to obtain reinforcements.

Noble motives leading to utter disaster at every turn, because at every opportunity they acted according to some silly ideal planted in their heads by bards, instead of taking a good long look at the other people wielding and chasing power in Westeros. The ones who suffer most as a result of all this aren't even the Starks themselves - they're the nameless peasantry of the North, sacked and pillaged by the Iron Islanders and flayed alive by the Boltons. 

Machiavelli and George RR Martin aren't showing us that cruelty for its own sake is any better in a leader, of course - it can get you poisoned at your own wedding. In depicting a fantasy setting where political power is portayed in a realistic way - as an arena where right and wrong are something very different to that in normal human relations - the series achieves a kind of greatness.