Avengers Endgame worldwide box office collection: Will this Marvel movie beat Avatar?
Avengers Endgame worldwide box office collection: This Marvel movie is expected to beat the current record holder, James Cameron's Avatar, by the time it exits theatres. It has so far earned 2.34 billion dollars.
The big Marvel film, Avengers: Endgame, is about to become the highest-grossing movie in the history of cinema at the worldwide box office. The movie concludes the Infinity Saga within the Marvel Cinematic Universe.


Advertising
It is expected to beat the current record holder, James Cameron’s Avatar, by the time it exits theatres. Though Avatar had the advantage of a Christmas release which gave it unusually strong legs, this summer is clogged up with big releases, some of them Disney’s own, that might create problems for Endgame.

Endgame, according to Box Office Mojo, has so far earned 2.34 billion dollars. Avatar ended its theatrical run at 2.78 billion dollars.

When it comes to the domestic market (North America) Ryan Reynolds starrer Pokemon live-action movie, Detective Pikachu, debuted at the top with an estimated 20.7 million dollars on its first day, beating Endgame that earned 16.06 million dollars. This is the first time since its release that Endgame is not at the first position.

Endgame’s total in North America currently stands at 676.50 million dollars. It is now the fifth highest-grossing movie ever in the domestic market, trailing behind Star Wars: The Force Awakens, Avatar, Black Panther and Avengers: Infinity War. Predictions say, it will end up beating Avatar, but might fall short of The Force Awakens’ 936.66 million dollars.

In India, too, Endgame has broken countless records. It became the first Hollywood movie to cross the Rs 300 crore mark, beating its own predecessor Infinity War to do so.

Avengers: Endgame has also received highly positive reviews, with a 95 per cent rating at Rotten Tomatoes. The consensus reads, “Exciting, entertaining, and emotionally impactful, Avengers: Endgame does whatever it takes to deliver a satisfying finale to Marvel’s epic Infinity Saga.”
Alyssa Milano calls for sex strike to protest strict abortion bans
The former star of Charmed and current cast member of Insatiable, Alyssa Milano urged women in her tweet to stop having sex “until we get bodily autonomy back.”
Actress Alyssa Milano ignited social media with a tweet on Friday night calling for women to join her in a sex strike to protest strict abortion bans passed by Republican-controlled legislatures.


Advertising
The former star of Charmed and current cast member of Insatiable, which is filmed in Georgia, urged women in her tweet to stop having sex “until we get bodily autonomy back.” Her tweet came days after Georgia became the fourth state in the U.S. this year to ban abortions once a fetal heartbeat is detected, which can be as early as six weeks before many women know they are pregnant.

“We need to understand how dire the situation is across the country,” Milano told The Associated Press on Saturday. “It’s reminding people that we have control over our own bodies and how we use them.”

She noted that women have historically withheld sex to protest or advocate for political reform. She cited how Iroquois women refused to have sex in the 1600s as a way to stop unregulated warfare. Most recently, she noted that Liberian women used a sex strike in 2003 to demand an end to a long-running civil war.
Milano received support from fans and fellow actress Bette Midler joined her in also calling for a sex strike with her own tweet. But both liberals and conservatives also lampooned her idea, with conservatives praising her for promoting abstinence and liberals saying she was pushing a false narrative that women only have sex as a favour to men.
Milano said the criticism didn’t bother her and that her tweet was having her desired effect, “which is getting people to talk about the war on women.”

She said she fears one of the laws could eventually be decided by the conservative-leaning U.S. Supreme Court, which Republicans hope will overturn the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision legalising abortion.

“That is absolutely horrifying to me,” Milano said. “Anyone who is not completely and totally outraged by this and doesn’t see where this is leading, I think is not taking this threat seriously.”

Milano said people have to determine for themselves how long the sex strike should last. For her part, she hasn’t decided yet how long she will forgo sex.

“I mean I don’t know,” she said. “I sent a tweet last night I haven’t really thought much past that this morning.”
Where’d You Go, Bernadette trailer: Tired of her life, Cate Blanchett sails for Antarctica
In Where'd You Go, Bernadette, Cate Blanchett plays an architect who is disillusioned with her personal life and is hardly getting any sleep. After being completely fed up of all the troubles, Bernadette just escapes. She leaves for Antarctica for a project.
Where’d You Go, Bernadette is an upcoming movie based on the novel of the same name. It stars Cate Blanchett in the lead role. The film features an excellent cast including Billy Crudup, Kristen Wiig, Emma Nelson, James Urbaniak, Judy Greer, Troian Bellisario, Zoë Chao and Laurence Fishburne.


Advertising
Blanchett plays an architect who is disillusioned with her personal life and is hardly getting any sleep. Fishburne’s character tells Bernadette, “People like you must create. If you don’t, you become a menace to society.”
Later, he says, “There is one answer to all your problems. Get your a** back to work.”

After being completely fed up of all the troubles, Bernadette just escapes. She leaves for Antarctica for a project. There is a sense of wish-fulfillment here. How many of us, after all, have not thought about giving up everything and escaping to, say, a wilderness?
“It’s twice the challenge anyone ever imagines, with long stretches without sleep and exercise,” she is told. “Sounds like I’ve been training for this for the last 20 years,” Bernadette replies.

The movie looks great. Boyhood director Richard Linklater is helming it.

The official synopsis states, “Based on the runaway bestseller, Where’d You Go, Bernadette is an inspiring comedy about Bernadette Fox (Academy Award winner Cate Blanchett), a loving mom who becomes compelled to reconnect with her creative passions after years of sacrificing herself for her family. Bernadette’s leap of faith takes her on an epic adventure that jump-starts her life and leads to her triumphant rediscovery.”
Mark Wahlberg, Jason Isaacs join Scoob’s voice cast
In Scoob, directed by Tony Cervone, Mark Wahlberg will play the Blue Falcon, a superhero from the Hanna-Barbera canon who teams with Scooby-Doo and the Mystery Gang to fight against one of his arch-enemies, Mr Hyde. Jason Isaacs will play Dick Dastardly, who is reported to be the main villain in Scoob.
Actors Mark Wahlberg and Jason Isaacs have boarded the voice cast of Warner Bros’ upcoming animated Scooby-Doo movie Scoob.


Advertising
In the film, directed by Tony Cervone, Wahlberg will play the Blue Falcon, a superhero from the Hanna-Barbera canon who teams with Scooby-Doo and the Mystery Gang to fight against one of his arch-enemies, Mr Hyde.

Ken Jeong is voicing, Blue Falcon’s right hand Dynomutt, reported Deadline.

Isaacs will play Dick Dastardly, who is reported to be the main villain in Scoob.

The film’s voice cast also features Zac Efron (Fred), Amanda Seyfried (Daphne), Gina Rodriguez (Velma), Will Forte (Shaggy), Tracy Morgan (Captain Caveman), Frank Welker (Scooby-Doo) and Kiersey Clemons (Dee Dee Skyes).

Kelly Freemon Craig and Matt Lieberman have penned the screenplay.

Allison Abbate, Pam Coats, Charles Roven and Richard Suckle are producers, with Chris Columbus and Andy Horwitz serving as executive producers.

