What is something completely different in real life than on TV?
SEX!

I watch TV and movies all the time and I am always amazed at how ridiculous the sex scenes are. The actors are always moaning & groaning and they thrash around the sheets, acting like they’re having the best sex of their lives.

Then, in the morning, the woman wakes up looking like she just stepped off a magazine cover. Then the couples start kissing and make love again. The men jump up and get dressed and head off to work, while the supermodel lays in bed looking blissfully happy.

It’s all so ridiculously fake!

In real life, sex is very emotional and wonderful, but it’s not portrayed well in movies. Sex can be awkward and embarrassing. People often try different positions and those antics are not attractive.

After sex, there is semen everywhere, mostly on the woman’s body. It’s also slimy and sticky, it gets on the sheets and everyone knows what sleeping on the “wet spot” feels like.

In the morning, no-one wakes up looking like a movie-star and everyone has morning-breath. I would never kiss my partner, first thing in the morning (gross) because we both know - that we both have morning breath.

I would never simply get dressed and head off to work. The very first thing I want to do is SHOWER! To clean that sticky mess off my body.

Sex scenes on TV and in the movies are ridiculously exaggerated to make sex seem like it’s the greatest thing in the world. You’ve all heard the term; SEX SELLS. Movies take this term to the extreme!
Sex.

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you, Every Sex Scene Ever

It all begins without foreplay

The couple stumble through the door, passionately making out so hard that they possibly run into things on their way to the bedroom, miraculously, nobody gets injured and it’s straight into the action.

No condom, never any lube and absolutely no time to spare.

It's chill, it's easy, it all runs smoothly because preparation is for bitches.

You can keep your hat (and your bra) on


Because boobs ruin the wholesome image the movie is clearly trying to portray by including a sex scene, every woman just decides to keep her bra on the entire time, and if she dares bare her chest (how scandalous) then we meet our next friend:

The L-Shaped Blanket


Strategically placed to cover those offensive female titties, but of course, our audience just has to see our big, sexy man-dude’s naked chest.

I even drew a diagram, because why not


(This is the very blanket that turns into a gorgeous wrap-dress when the woman walks away from the bed because who dares let their partner see them naked right after they’ve had sex?)

*Insert eternal shrieking*

The woman continues howling and screaming constantly, just so we know that she’s having the time of her life and the guy she’s getting it on with is an absolute sex god.

She orgasms in mere seconds from basically nothing (yes, he's that good) and her hair remains fucking perfect


Practice makes perfect?

No accidents. No injuries. No awkward or embarrassing moments.

Switching positions is swift and simple and nothing *ever* goes wrong. Nobody falls off the bed or hits their head on the headboard… nothing?

Then they fall asleep without even attempting to clean up or needing to pee

A few hours later…

Couple wakes up. They look stunning. Female human rolls out of bed (perhaps wearing her male counterpart’s dress shirt? And he doesn’t seem to care, there are no, “honey, what the fuck are you doing? I need that for work tomorrow” moments because taking other people’s clothes is totally okay) looking like she’s ready for a photoshoot. Her make-up is done, her hair looks good and nobody complained about having to sleep in the wet spot. Awesome.

The couple kiss (because morning breath is real fucking sexy) perhaps even fuck again, before she makes him a nice breakfast and he heads to work.

Yeah, if only…
Childbirth.

Ok, I’ve only done it twice. But I’ve informally polled an awful lot of other people who’ve birthed children, and at least two dozen have agreed with me on this.

Hardly anyone’s “water” ever breaks at the beginning of labor. It does happen, but it’s often done on a labor-&-delivery table by a medical attendant, too, because it didn’t happen spontaneously. Thank g*d.

You probably don’t want to learn this here, but I’m going to type it anyway: there will likely be poop. And Nobody Cares. It’s not guaranteed, certainly, but try this experiment: glue a straw to a garden hose, and fill it with Jello. Now, lying the hose on the ground, straw-side down, push a golf ball through the garden hose. Check to see if any Jello escaped the straw. ::shrugs:: I’ve heard multiple OBs/midwives/L-&-D nurses say that Poop Happens. And again, Nobody Cares.

There will probably not be any screaming. And the Deliverer will probably not curse out their partner. Ain’t nobody got the energy for that. Screaming is for the movies and tv; the rest of us are too busy trying to push that proverbial golf ball through that proverbial garden hose. It takes a lot of concentration. I personally couldn’t formulate any thoughts of anger towards any other party. I was just trying to squeeze this kid out of me, and dissociate from all the bizarre vs. familiar sensations I was experiencing. I’m sure I moaned and grunted and groaned like a barnyard, but there was no “screaming.” I was busy. And that was with an epidural (it worked to varying degrees, mind you).
Waking up : Women on TV wake up in their designer suit , with blow-dried hair, with a winged liner, highliter, and lipgloss . When in real life women wake up in pyjamas, messy bun, oily face and a stinky breath
Costly gifts: The husband comes home brings a gift in his hand, surprises his wife with a 50lakh diamond set and she is all happy and excited about it .While In real life the couple discuss their finances and plan and invest on jewellery , or at least the women chooses the necklace she wants, on which they spend lakhs of money
Sudden meet ups : The hero and the heroine fight, they are upset, they don't talk to each other for days or months or years and they suddenly meet and sort it out at a coffee shop and we never know how did they plan the meet up. In real life couples fight, they call back each other, one person cuts 100 calls of the other person, then talk and sort it mostly over call or plan to meet up , the sudden meet up never happens.
Cliche couples. The girl is super egoistic, she makes the guy roam behind, plays hard to get,never gives up on a fight,never even acknowledges the guy and the guy is shameless , he follows her everywhere, sings and dances around her and always travels lakhs of Kms to may be just say a sorry. While in real life both of them are mostly equal. no-one is shameless or no-one is super egoistic , the guy doesn't travel the world to just say a sorry and girls also make first move in a relationship
Rains : In movies the people forget where they where going and dance and eat ice-cream in rain, when in real life when it rains you think about the clothes drying on the terrace and immediately rush to rescue them from rain.
Mosquitoes or insects don't talk
A person does not become a millionaire over night
One person can't hit 50+ villains at a time
No ghosts exist
No sudden costume change happens
All of which happens in movies.
I see this cliche in movies and TV serials all the time.

The hero/heroine performs a dramatic sequence of gestures to propose their love-interest at a public place or his/her office or at his/her home or apartment.
Almost everyone around them stops doing what they were doing and there’s pin-drop silence so that they both can finish the entire act without any other sound interrupting the emotion.
Almost every time the proposee accepts the proposal of the proposer and then the bystanders erupt in applause with (sometimes) teary-eyes.
This NEVER happens in real life.

First of all, you can rarely get such a sequence of acts organized in the first place. Even if you can organize, the actual execution is mostly botched. Mostly you’ll get interrupted by the security or maintenance staff or someone who’s in charge of keeping such obvious stupidity away.

Even if somehow you do get to perform the planned gesture, nobody really gives a flying fornication for such proposals. Nobody stops in their shoes to see such acrobats. Almost every time everyone is just waiting for you to make a fool of yourself so that they can point at you and laugh their asses off. Even if he/she accepts your proposal, I doubt if anyone would want to give this an applause. But looks of disgust and rolling eyes are surely guaranteed to be spotted in the crowd if any.

So do yourself, and more importantly to the people around you, a favour and drop the plan of doing a romantic gesture in public to your love interest. Unless the crowd is a bunch of (friendly) friends, you’d never get the response that is so falsely shown on most of the cheesy romcoms.
What is something completely different in real life than on TV?

I used to be a first responder for many years. An EMT, I was also the person who taught CPR instructors how to do the technique according to American Heart Association standards, so they could teach others properly.

CPR (cardio-pulmonary resuscitation) is VERY different in real life than on TV. On television, you see a rather pristine version of the potentially life-saving technique: Rarely is a reference made to the broken ribs, cracked sternum, punctured lungs or other injuries which can happen even when CPR is performed by the best practitioner. Variables abound — the age of the patient, the condition they’re in, too heavy, too thin, etc; it all has an effect and plays as much of a role in whether or not the patient survives as does the proficiency of the person doing those chest compressions.

Patients don’t always resuscitate, either. CPR is done to the best of a person’s abilities, yet there are times when the patient remains deceased.

On TV, CPR almost always works to bring the patient back. Some shows have made me roll my eyes in disbelief, with their patient almost popping up to stand and shake the person’s hand who did that perfect CPR. Not even a bruise! Oh, if we could all have that kind of success doing this technique!

And now the public service announcement: Despite the complications that can happen from doing CPR, I’m asking you to PLEASE find a CPR class and take it. The heart can stop for many, many reasons (yes, even in someone who appears perfectly healthy) and we need people like you (yes, YOU!) to be available to CALL 911 then begin CPR. People have been saved by those who’ve seen CPR on a show or in a movie and did the best they could to mimic those chest compressions. As of this writing, ‘rescue breathing’ is considered secondary in CPR — the chest compressions are of the utmost importance. Take a class, you could save a life.
One funny thing I’ve noticed over the years is the way people brush their teeth on TV shows and movies. The main thing is when they rinse their mouths afterward because they usually just rinse and spit one time and then they are done. People I know and myself included, we rinse our mouths more than once after brushing our teeth. I always thought that was funny.

One other thing that comes to mind is how people seem to get out of their cars on the passenger side on classic TV shows. I recall seeing this a lot on The Andy Griffith show. If someone is driving and they park their car, they often get out on the passenger or opposite side of the car instead of the driver side.