Marvel Studios plans to reveal one of its characters is gay, says Joe Russo
Joe Russo's cameo in Avengers: Endgame has given a sneak peek into Marvel Studio's plans of inclusion and the director says a character will be revealed as gay in an upcoming film.
Filmmaker Joe Russo’s cameo in Avengers: Endgame has given a sneak peek into Marvel Studio’s plans of inclusion and the director says a character will be revealed as gay in an upcoming film.


Advertising
Joe, one half of the directing duo Russo Brothers who directed Endgame, suggested it is a person fans already know.

The directors made the revelation to hosts Dalton Ross and Jessica Shaw during Entertainment Weekly’s Morning Live.

The presenters asked about Joe’s small part in the recently released blockbuster wherein he played a grieving man in a therapy session dealing with the loss of his loved one after Thanos’ snap.
“It was an integral scene to show how the world was reacting to what happened in at the end of ‘Infinity War’,” Joe said.

Ross asked if it was the first out gay character in a Marvel film, to which the director said Yes, openly gay.

“There’ve been insinuations about other characters’ sexuality, but this is the first openly gay character,” he added.

When Shaw asked who else was gay, Joe tip-toed and said “Uhhh. We’re gonna find out.”

“That’s a story for another day,” Anthony added.
Last year, Marvel head Kevin Feige said two openly gay characters would be revealed.

“There is a gay character coming up in one of their films, and I think Kevin will make that announcement, I’m sure pretty soon,” Joe said.

Godzilla King of the Monsters early reactions: Critics hail the epic monsters-on-monster showdown
Godzilla: King of the Monsters is the sequel to 2014's Godzilla and the third film in the cinematic universe known as the MonsterVerse after Godzilla and Kong: Skull Island (2017). The early reviews of the film are highly positive.
Early reactions for Godzilla: King of the Monsters from critics are in and they are all favourable. In fact, the critics seem positively awed by the giant monster-on-monster action the movie provides. Keep in mind, though, that the reception to early screenings of films can be unjustifiably glowing.


Advertising
Godzilla: King of the Monsters is the sequel to 2014’s Godzilla and the third film in the cinematic universe known as the MonsterVerse after Godzilla and Kong: Skull Island (2017). It is all leading up to the titanic battle between Godzilla and Kong in 2020 in the movie titled Godzilla vs Kong.
It stars Kyle Chandler, Vera Farmiga, Millie Bobby Brown, Bradley Whitford, Sally Hawkins, Charles Dance, Thomas Middleditch, Aisha Hinds, O’Shea Jackson Jr., David Strathairn, Ken Watanabe, and Zhang Ziyi.

Collider’s editor-in-chief Steve Weintraub wrote, “Had real issues with #godzilla (2014). The movie was called Godzilla but he was barely in it. Thankfully @Mike_Dougherty’s #GodzillaKingOfTheMonsters is awesome. It’s everything I wanted last movie to b but wasn’t. If u want to see Godzilla fighting other monsters u will b happy.”
Robert De Niro, Morgan Freeman, Tommy Lee Jones to star in action-comedy Comeback Trail
Bad Boys writer George Gallo is directing the movie Comeback Trail, which is based on Harry Hurwitz's 1982 film of the same name.
Oscar-winning Hollywood legends Tommy Lee Jones, Morgan Freeman and Robert De Niro are set to headline action-comedy The Comeback Trail.


Advertising
Bad Boys writer George Gallo is directing the movie, which is based on Harry Hurwitz’s 1982 film of the same name.

According to the Hollywood Reporter, the project is heading to the Cannes market next week with Storyboard Media repping international sales.

In the film, De Niro will play Max Barber who, in debt to Freeman’s mob boss, creates an insurance fraud by casting washed-up, suicidal cowboy/movie star Duke Montana (Jones) in a poorly written Western with the intention of killing him during the first days of filming. But Duke somehow rises to the occasion, thereby redeeming his past misdeeds, and brings Max and others along on the same journey.
Josh Posner co-wrote the screenplay with Gallo. The team will start filming in June in New Mexico.

The Comeback Trail is produced by Steven Tyler Sahlein, March On Productions’ Richard Salvatore and David Ornston, along with Joy Sirott Hurwitz and Julie Lott Gallo.

Naomie Harris: Black women have been over-represented by negative stereotypes in film
Talking about her role in the Oscar-winning Moonlight, Naomie Harris said she has always tried to portray minorities in a positive manner.
Naomie Harris says black women have been “over-represented” in roles with “negative stereotypes” and those are the parts she would never take up.


Advertising
Talking about her role in the Oscar-winning Moonlight, the actor said she has always tried to portray minorities in a positive manner.

Harris, 42, played Paula, a drug addict and mother to lead character Chiron (Ashton Sanders).

“I’ve always said that I will never play a kind of stereotypical black woman’s role. So I felt as a black woman I’d been far too over-represented in the role of a prostitute and crack addict and these kinds of negative stereotypes, so I said I would never play a crack addict.

“I have always said from the beginning of my career that I only want to portray positive representations of black people in general and black woman in particular. So I made that very clear to my representation from the very, very beginning so I think they were really hesitant about coming to me with this script,” she said at the GQ Heroes summit.

The Skyfall star went on to explain that despite having “reservations” upon reading the script for the 2016 drama, directed by Barry Jenkins, she was “moved” by the story.

“They said it’s by this filmmaker and he’s really incredible and we think the script is really incredible as well. I came to it with all these reservations I was like ‘I’m not gonna like this; this isn’t the kind of thing that I want to do’.

“But I read it and was welling up with tears and I was so moved by it and I thought it was such a beautiful story,” Harris said.
