What do you think about TVF's new show Kota Factory?
Episode 3 is streaming now.

Optimization is one of the ways to be done to deal with the problems. That's very thoughtful.

Yeah, only science Students can understand how stupid inorganic chemistry is and still we waste more of our time in mugging it up. That's all the episode was all about. You know after ten years this inorganic won't be mattered and still, we do.

Coming to the episode,


This is where the expectations hurt in the episode. We apply rules and we solve the questions thinking that they would be in the same fashion but what happens? What comes next, Exception.

The exception happens in Chemistry. And we mug that up without thinking of the logic, why? Science is a subject where questions should be put up but no, it's more of a Mythology, believe it, learn and go ahead.

But,


Do not blame the teachers. I'm sure you have worst chemistry teachers out there, with you who are not able to quench the thirst of doubts in your head or maybe you got lucky with a good one. My chemistry teacher was hot pretty lady, but it's not them, it's the subject. And the way you take it.


Girls are good at it. I mean Chemistry. That's why guys never take an initiative to become a Doctor unless they are insanely motivated by it.


There's no respect for this subject or this particular portion, true. Somewhat we give attention to Organic. Most of us love conversions, right. Yeah but inorganic they advise to study from NCERT. Which mainly requires no guidance. Somewhere.


I was quite happy to see the type of environment they tried to set in. I mean the attention they tried to give to the subject and advised us the same. The blackboard, the board inside the study room, God it will make all of us remember to our days. The periodic table charts, the exceptional elements, the pattern and tricks to learn the periodic table, ‘Halena ne ki rab se fariyaad’, oh god that's all nostalgic.


Disappointed again. Not able to solve the problems. Exceptions hurt again. And I don't know why but this guy seems to look like Carryminati from YouTube.

And then comes the Rajjo speech from Pyar ka Punchnama.




Did you notice the board behind? Told you, the type of environment.


The speech ended here. And here comes the show stopper who summed up the episode.


The kind of situation he creates to solve the problem.

If you wanna go on a date with a girl. And you're fully prepared and you're going with all those gifts and champagne and suddenly a thief comes and robs you, then what will you do?

Ideally, you should go and beat him up. That's what Jeetu Bhaiya taught. A problem arises then beat them up. But no, if the thief is fast and efficient, then the only hack to solve it is to ignore it.

At least you have other two gifts safe with you. And those gifts are chocolates and a ring. More gracious and valuable. Your Physics and Maths.

But wait, the teacher asked us to face the problems and beat it, or at least struggle with it.

Nope, analyse the problem first and channelize it according to the time you have. That's what we have to do in JEE and its not rocket science.

Sentence of the episode - ‘Exam ke liye padhne se Pehle, exam ko padho’

Translation - Before studying for the exam, study the exam. Analyse it.

For eleven per cent of the Inorganic chemistry in the paper, you're wasting your precious time for Maths and Physics.


So dump your problems if they are eating too much of your time and get the fucking thing started.

I noticed one thing that Kota Factory is not focusing on NEET preparations. I mean they are only focusing on the JEE. And that intrigued me so I thought mainly because they think NEET is all about the mugging. Maybe. Or engineering aspirants are more in number. Could be anything.

