Game of Thrones season 8 episode 5: Five best moments
Game of Thrones season 8 episode 5, titled The Bells, saw the deaths of many major characters who have been part of the show from the first season itself. Here are our favourite moments from the episode.
The latest episode of Game of Thrones titled The Bells was a frenzied episode that saw the deaths of many major characters who have been part of the show from the first season itself.
Now, we have no idea what is going to happen in the finale, and how the showrunners are going to top this. Anyway, here are our favourite moments from the episode.

Also Read | Game of Thrones season 8 episode 5 recap: All hell breaks loose in King’s Landing

Lord Varys’ death: The champion of the common people who always fought to keep the general populace safe, Lord Varys was burnt alive by Drogon. Daenerys Targaryen, as always, yelled, “Dracarys!” and the dragon did his job. It was Tyrion Lannister, Varys’ old friend, who betrayed him. It appeared quite out-of-character for Tyrion to do that, since he too has had qualms about Daenerys and her method of burning people alive, something she has in common with her father, Aerys Targaryen, who incidentally was referred to as the Mad King by people. Also, Tyrion valued Varys. He knew what Daenerys would do, and he ratted him out anyway. As we later came to know, Varys was absolutely right to fear Daenerys.
Drogon destroying King’s Landing: It was horrifying, but it was also gorgeous. As the creative talent of the people behind the show appears to have dwindled, the skill of the VFX team and cinematographers seems to have multiplied. The visuals in the episode were quite stunning. The VFX was like those expensive summer blockbusters, even better than most. I do not think we have seen such lifelike depiction of dragons and the destruction they can wreak if let loose. Even Smaug the Terrible in Peter Jackson’s Hobbit films cannot match Drogon even if he spoke with Benedict Cumberbatch’s voice. Drogon destroyed the Iron Fleet in no time (something he was incapable of in the last episode) and then obliterated the Golden Company. The poor soldiers did not even get to fight.

And then Daenerys Targaryen went mad. She began to kill common people, women, children, alike. Like I said, it was horrifying, but beautiful.

Cleganbowl: We had Cleganebowl! No matter how improbable it was, the Hound and the Mountain fought. It did not last long. Just when the Mountain was about to shatter the Hound’s skull, the Hound stabbed his elder brother in the face. And he jumped to his death, but took his brother with him. Finally, Sandor Clegane got vengeance for the horrible scarring of his face. Gregor Clegane had always been a cruel brute, and just for fun, he had shoved Sandor’s face into a brazier, ruining his face and also making him fear fire his whole life. The Hound died, but before that he had a closure to his nightmares.

Cersei and Jaime Lannister’s death: Cersei and Jaime Lannister died in the bowels of the Red Keep. They were trying to escape all the death and destruction through a secret passage when they were stopped by an archway blocked by debris. Cersei, despairing, began to cry and Jaime tried to comfort her. They were buried beneath all the rubble as the roof fell down on them. We do not think they survived. It was an apt ending for them, but I am still not sure why they turned Jaime into his 7 season old self again. Sure, love can make us take irrational decisions, but him going back to Cersei, like he was addicted to her, felt quite off.

Arya Stark and the horse: The last scene of the episode showed Arya Stark, who was sent back by the Hound, alive. She woke up and saw a white horse. The scene was quite exquisitely shot, but we do not know what it means, yet. The “pale” horse holds meaning in the New Testament’s final book — Book of Revelation. Death sits on the pale horse. Since Westeros is fictional and there is no Christianity in the show, we can only guess. Is it Bran who has come to save his sister by warging into a white horse? Or is Arya dreaming? Or is she dead and this is her afterlife? Okay, the last one is quite unlikely. I am pretty sure, however, the scene holds some significance. We just do know what.
Shahid Kapoor: Kabir Singh is a cathartic film
At the trailer launch, Shahid Kapoor spoke on playing Kabir Singh in the Arjun Reddy remake, treatment of female characters in it and why it was an honest film.
Shahid Kapoor plays a temperamental doctor in his upcoming film Kabir Singh. The film is an official remake of Telugu hit Arjun Reddy, starring Vijay Deverakonda. At its trailer launch in Mumbai on Monday, Shahid shared how he got into the shoes of Kabir Singh.


Advertising
“Rediscovering the character is challenging. I loved Vijay’s work. When I met Sandeep, we both wanted to search Kabir Singh’s soul and offer his personality to the audience. If you connect with the love story between Preethi and Kabir or if you have had a broken heart, you will understand the intensity of the film,” Shahid said.

“Kabir Singh is too honest. It has a lot of emotions and has a lot of dark moments also. We haven’t tried to change the world of Kabir Singh. It is very similar to Arjun Reddy. I really want people to see the honesty of Kabir Singh. Don’t judge the film or its language from the trailer. Watch the film for its soul. Only then you’ll know the headspace and journey of the character,” the actor added.

Talking about Kabir Singh being the first remake he has worked on, Shahid Kapoor said, “I don’t think I can comment on my performance. But I score it high when it comes to difficulty. This is my first remake, so there is already a film to compare my work with. It is a thin line between making it too different that it looks like a totally different film, and make it like the original one.”

In Kabir Singh, Shahid plays a temperamental, alcoholic doctor who is unable to deal with heartbreak. Talking about the projection of anger and aggression in the film, the actor said, “I think sometimes we are very hypocritical about how we tend to look at cinema which is made in India. We watch things made internationally and praise them for the fact that they are so honest, straight and not trying to be politically correct all the time. Cinema is meant to showcase different people having different experiences. It is not about wonderful perfect people I think we all are imperfect in our own ways. We all have grey areas within ourselves. We go through good and bad phases. We all have been angry at some point, hurt and negative at some point.”

“To me, watching a film like Kabir Singh will help you understand that when you allow yourself to be affected by those things, it can take you a path of destruction. It is a warning not to take that route. For people who might have been there, it can be therapeutic. Cinema acts as a medicine. If you see something you relate to, it helps you have a catharsis of sorts. To me, Kabir Singh is a cathartic film. It makes you honestly go through that journey of a man, without trying to sugar coat it, because then that’s being manipulative. Sandeep has made an honest film and people should watch it knowing that. If people only want to come and see people going ‘hey hey ha ha’, then cinema won’t go far. We need to be able to make real films,” he added.

Also read: Kabir Singh movie trailer LIVE UPDATES

While Arjun Reddy was panned for its treatment of female characters, has Kabir Singh played down that part of the story? Shahid Kapoor clarified, “What is your interpretation of film evolving? To always show the right thing? I did Jab We Met. Who was the aggressive character in the film? I played the submissive character. In Padmaavat, I was much quieter, and now I have done Kabir Singh where I am playing an aggressive character. In college, there are alpha males, men who feel they have a sense of territorial ownership over a certain place. There are other men who aren’t so aggressive in their behaviour. Some films depict those kind of characters. This film depicts this kind of character. You see the film and see what happens to him. Tommy Singh (Shahid’s character in Udta Punjab) does much worse things than Kabir Singh. If I start justifying characters, I can’t be an actor. I have to play characters for their good and bad. Represent them honestly. That’s what acting is about. Otherwise, I am just wanting people to like me. That’s what stardom is about. Acting is about being honest, letting people dislike you sometimes. It’s ok. It’s important.”
Shahid signed off by calling the Sandeep Reddy Vanga directorial an honest and special film. “Kabir Singh is a very special film as it is straight from the heart. This heart belongs to Sandeep and it got broke. I don’t know how many times his heart was broken. Don’t take the story wrong just because so much alcohol and smoking is shown. This is a very honest film. Kabir Singh is as honest as Tommy Singh of Udta Punjab. I have always thought that cult films should not be remade. Arjun Reddy is a cult film. But I am glad that we made the remake as Kabir Singh depicts the honesty and intensity,” the actor said.
Game of Thrones season 8 episode 6 preview: The finale is here
The preview of Game of Thrones' finale has been released by HBO. It begins by showing the aftermath of the destruction caused by dragonfire. Jon Snow and Davos Seaworth walk in the ruins of the capital. Tyrion Lannister is doing the same. Only, he is alone.
The latest episode of Game of Thrones’ final season was full of fire and blood. If you have not seen The Bells, do not read further. And just like Emilia Clarke said, it did top the Battle of Winterfell, in which the Night King and his Army of the Dead was defeated.


Advertising
The Bells saw the destruction of almost the entire King’s Landing by Daenerys Targaryen and Drogon, who indiscriminately burnt soldiers and civilians alike. We saw women and children dying in extremely painful ways. Daenerys is now certainly a Mad Queen and is following in her father’s footsteps. Her character arc has been depressing, but then this is Game of Thrones.
The preview of the finale has been released by HBO. It begins by showing the aftermath of the destruction caused by dragonfire. Jon Snow and Davos Seaworth walk in the ruins of the capital. Tyrion Lannister is doing the same. Only, he is alone.

They all look understandably horrified. Tyrion must be feeling guilty, and rightly so. He had a chance of stopping Daenerys with Varys and he betrayed his friend — the friend who was then burnt to death.
Tyrion Lannister looks up at ruins of the Red Keep. Arya Stark emerges and stands beside the Unsullied and the Dothraki. The snow is falling. The winter took its time to arrive at King’s Landing. Dothraki, or whatever remains of them, cheer by raising their curved swords in the air.

Daenerys Targaryen looks out over her armies. She is seen from behind. The others are certainly going to move against her and make Jon Snow the king. What else can the finale be about, after all. Daenerys still has Drogon and her armies. She will not go down easily.
