What is something you noticed in Game of Thrones S8E5 that you believe others have missed?
1.) Varys’s “little bird” Martha says she’s being watched by Daenerys’s soldiers. Why? I believe that Daenerys is enveloped in paranoia, and does not trust her advisers. Nod to the Mad King (her father).

2.) Tyrion comes to Daenerys saying that there’s something she should know. She immediately guesses that someone has betrayed her. I wonder if that is what Tyrion had come to tell her. Did he not know that Jon has already informed Daenerys of his parentage?

3.) Varys takes his rings off before he goes away with the soldiers, anticipating execution. Is there something special about his rings? Also, importantly, he is perhaps the only person in the entire show who does not shriek as he is roasted to death. Is it because he has already endured worse torture before (when he was gelded), or because he is emboldened by his commitment to the betterment of the realm?

4.) Daenerys looks at the belt Missandei used to wear as a slave and hands it to Grey Worm. It is immediately flung into the fire. I wonder what this means. It seems strange the two people who loved Missandei the most would try to forget her. This could be an allusion to the fact that all of the kindness, love, and other softer feelings in Daenerys’s heart are being given over to fire, that is, being obliterated.

5.) Jon tries to hold off the soldiers as the Unsullied begin indiscriminate slaughter of the opponent soldiers. Grey Worm notices this and I suspect he might inform Daenerys of Jon’s reluctance to participate in the war crimes that they perpetrated on the people of King’s Landing.

6.) As Arya is fleeing from the Red Keep, she comes across a woman and her daughter, also on the run. Later, she finds their charred bodies on the road. There’s a half-burnt toy horse in the child’s hand. This is a déjà vu moment, as we are reminded of Shireen’s death and the burnt wooden stag that Davos later finds at the stake. Here we have another innocent child suffering a gruesome death for no comprehensible reason.
EDIT: I would also like to add here that the throwback to Shireen’s death could also foreshadow Daenerys’s eventual fate. Just as Stannis sacrificed his daughter for a greater cause but was ultimately thwarted in his efforts, Daenerys too will not get the throne she so covets.

What do you think about the drama Sky Castle?
Just amazing!!!

Story compromise everything whether it is comedy, mystery, drama, thriller, ful of life. The whole drama will completely engage you. It has so much twist and turns that you will never get bored watching this drama plus it has only 20+1 episodes per epi around 1 hour so yeah its easy to watch if you are one of the regular drama watchers. I'm not gonna add any spoilers just hurry and watch it you will not regret after completing this drama.

Thank you~
Sky castle is not usual Rom-com dramas . First i want to see it because of high rating (why it got high rating?) After 2 episodes I watched it because of the scenes and actor's acting . Story plot is also suitable for our country itself. It's worth watching because of positive ending.
Why is Priyanka Chopra called fake?
In the name of feminism,she has been just an attention seeker.

She needs a guy just for making babies. Just reverse the gender and see the reaction of society.(I am not supporting any kind of sexism here).

Miss PC,What do you think? Are men sperm donors?

Or,ATM Machines?

Ever since she has landed in America, She has been everything but Original.

Fake Marriage: Check

Fake Accent: Check

Fake Voice with Auto Tune: Check

Fake Facial Features: Check

Fake to appear American: Check

Fake Feminism: Check

Fake Environmentalist: Check

She has gone out of her way to seek American acceptance with Accent, Verbiage and Dialects. She even throws in her brief school stint in Queens,NY as proof of being more native to America.

She dressed as revealing as possible on interviews/red carpets(She reserves right to make fashion choices), Faked as much attitude as possible, Faked optimism and Indian nationalism when it suited her.

As a result she had little to no acceptance in American society or Hollywood. She was mostly out of work or reduced to blink and miss roles when she decided to marry just 2 month's old BF Nick Jonas to gather limelight and probably citizenship. Everyone in social circles knew that it is a marriage arranged by their PR teams. If you don't believe me then just check the status in 2 years time. Everything in the marriage was sponsored by Tiffany, Elit and Amazon in return for exclusive mentions, pics and videos for their editions.

Priyanka intends to have global domination or recognition but she would have to realize it will come only with being natural like Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan or Shekhar Kapur or Zakir Hussain. All these people brought their originality on global stage and that's what got appreciated aside from their exceptional skills. Heck, even Kim Jong-Un received more acclodes.

Priyanka got lost in translation and now the water is under the bridge. All this happened despite of her Over Aggressive, Multi million dollar PR team.

Recently, she posted this lovey dovey picture of after marriage affection and thought it will gather ‘Awww’ effect instead people asked if you were having personal time with Nick then who was the one clicking the picture ?
Priyanka Chopra, the name has become synonymous with Hypocrisy. To be frank she is the undisputed queen of hypocrisy.

Let me substantiate my claims with few excerpts from her own contradicting statements.

She was allergetic to firecrackers, yet in her wedding she somehow managed to be immune to the smoke of firecrackers. (Since, in her wedding the firecrackers added Oxygen to the atmosphere.)
3. This might be controversial, but she had a choice, yet she choose to play a role in bad faith, which I am sure no true Nationalist would have agreed to portray. I know it’s just an act, but in such International atmosphere, she should understand sometimes somethings are better not to be touched. (Faith, in this case)
4. In many of her interviews, she has put forward views which are entirely indigestible. During her struggling days as an actress, she used to wear make up and participate in all kinds of activities. Now, when she has earned huge chunks of money and fame, she is putting forward opinions which are completely contradictory.

5. Also, she doesn’t needs a man other than to have children. (Wow!) Then why did she marry a diabetic Nick Jonas? (Ahm something fishy)

Is such an immature behaviour expected out of a celebrity who is representing India, a Nation of such rich cultural heritage, at an International level ?

Even the common people understand she is an actress, she has to do “few” gimmicks in order to gain attention, but doing it frequently just to show that you are an International citizen and can speak on various International topics concerning India is totally wrong, Mrs.Chopra/Mrs Jonas.

Not only the Indian media, but also the foreign media has now started calling her hypocrite.

The very reason she started to be outspoken without thinking twice, (though her PR has to be blamed for it) has caused more damage to her image than she would have expected otherwise.
Believe me, I m not much of fan of the Kardashians, but at least they have some stuff, in terms of the looks and body, ok …. May be best booty and all that..great oomph factor,show there pic to any random guy in world and see the reaction…

Piggy chops, well defined named for Priyanka Chopra is none. Cuz her lips are pigs face…anyways

Even a regular maid or a naive village malnutritious girl looks like her or may be better than her.

Slender legs like teenage boys, normal color, no booty nor great or voluptuous bosoms, nor great eyes nor anything that you need a girl in entertainment industry, just average. Simply obnoxious level or pr to make her at where she is .

Look at her pics in bikini, if she ever had one, look at her pics in Western outfiets, she looks horrible.

Even if you pull down a list of all girls who are doing similar stuff in terms of being in limelight, you will see zillions of ultra hot, Uber cool girls, sexy babes and what not with a goddess like figure, beutiful body or assets, gorgeous looks and oomph factor and what not….but PC, all missing.

She is simply copying the Kardashians interms of gaining fake publicity by doing some random stuff that will bring her in limelight. That's all.

Bull crap mindset, no proper acting jobs, all she has a great PR team that manages to present her upfront in all possible aspects that can break the headlines. That's it.

If you look closely, she is not hot, not beautiful, not great in acting, doesn't have a fixed mindset to stick to, doesn't have a bold or authentic frame of mind that she can stick to, a perfect blend of hypocrite is all she is.

Ultra average she is interms of everything, but managed to get that where she is due to fake stuff which doesn't matter and doesn't relate to what she is as an individual. She ain't genuine.

Great team she has for managing her PR.