Pokemon Detective Pikachu tries to dethrone the Avengers
Ryan Reynolds voices Pikachu, the popular Pokémon character in Detective Pikachu, which notched a record of its own: Biggest video game adaption opening. The previous record-holder was the Angelina Jolie Tomb Raider from 2001, which opened with 47 million dollars.
Pokémon Detective Pikachu gave Avengers: Endgame a run for its money this weekend at the box office, but the superheroes managed to hold onto the throne once again.


Advertising
The Walt Disney Co. said Sunday that the Marvel blockbuster earned an estimated 63.1 million dollars from its third weekend in North American theaters, bringing its domestic grosses to 723.5 million dollars, surpassing the totals for Black Panther and Avengers: Infinity War.

Internationally, it added 102.3 million dollars, bringing its global total to just shy of 2.5 billion dollars where it remains the second biggest worldwide release of all time behind Avatar (2.8 billion dollars.)

But three weeks into Avengers dominance, the market finally had some room for another film to make a substantial impact. Warner Bros. managed to draw a significant audience to its live-action Pokémon Detective Pikachu, which opened on 4,202 screens and earned an estimated 58 million dollars from ticket sales.
“What a terrific result,” said Jeff Goldstein, Warner Bros. head of domestic distribution. “It’s so much fun to watch Detective Pikachu have this kind of opening.”

And there’s no bad blood that Endgame powered past Pikachu in the end.

“It was fun to win Friday night, but as they say in golf, you play your own game and I’m thrilled with our result,” Goldstein added.

It even beat Endgame internationally by a very slight margin with 103 million dollars.
Ryan Reynolds voices the popular Pokémon character in the film, which notched a record of its own: Biggest video game adaption opening. The previous record-holder was the Angelina Jolie Tomb Raider from 2001, which opened with 47 million dollars, not adjusted for inflation.

“Typically movies based on video games haven’t been all that successful,” Goldstein said.

It was a mixed bag for other newcomers looking for a piece of the market, including two women-led comedies strategically launching on Mother’s Day: The Hustle and Poms, which both attracted an overwhelmingly female audience.

The Hustle, a gender-flipped spin on Dirty Rotten Scoundrels with Anne Hathaway and Rebel Wilson, landed in third place with 13.6 million dollars despite lackluster reviews.

MORE EXPLAINED

Simply put: The US-China trade war
Less lucky was the Diane Keaton cheerleading comedy Poms, which grossed only 5.1 million dollars in its debut against similarly negative reviews from critics. Poms placed sixth behind the thriller The Intruder (6.6 million dollars) and the Seth Rogen and Charlize Theron rom-com Long Shot (6.1 million dollars), which are both in their second weekends.

In smaller releases, Tolkien, a biopic about the Lord of the Rings author starring Nicholas Hoult opened in ninth place on 1,495 screens with 2.2 million dollars, while the documentary The Biggest Little Farm debuted in five locations and earned 101,012 dollars.

And while not every film was a hit this weekend, the diversity of content is important to the marketplace, noted Paul Dergarabedian, the senior media analyst for Comscore. Overall, the industry-wide box office continues to get stronger as the year goes on. The weekend is up around 23%, and the year is down around 9%. Three weeks ago, pre-Endgame, that year-to-date deficit was at 17%.

“It should never be about just one type of movie,” said Dergarabedian. “That used to be the thing about summer, it was about drawing in the 18-24 year olds with superhero movies and action movies. In today’s world, summer offers a much more eclectic and diverse mix and that’s paying dividends for Hollywood.”

And May has more big movies to come, including Aladdin, Rocketman, John Wick 3: Parabellum and Godzilla: King of the Monsters.

“May could be a monster at the box office,” Dergarabedian said.

Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Comscore. Where available, the latest international numbers for Friday through Sunday are also included. Final domestic figures will be released Monday.

Avengers: Endgame, 63.1 million dollars (102.3 million dollars international).
Pokémon Detective Pikachu, 58 million dollars (103 million dollars international).
The Hustle, 13.6 million dollars(13.7 million dollars international).
The Intruder, 6.6 million dollars.
Long Shot, 6.1 million dollars (1.6 million dollars international).
Poms, 5.1 million dollars (736,000 dollars international).
Uglydolls, 3.9 million dollars (522,000 dollars international).
Breakthrough, 2.5 million dollars.
Tolkien, 2.2 million dollars (200,283 dollars international).
Captain Marvel, 1.8 million dollars.
Avengers Endgame worldwide box office collection: Marvel movie mints 2.485 billion dollars
Marvel Cinematic Universe's Avengers: Endgame is unstoppable. After crossing the 2 billion dollar mark at an unbelievable rate, the big MCU finale's current total at the international box office stands at 2.485 billion dollars.
Marvel Cinematic Universe’s Avengers: Endgame is unstoppable. After crossing the 2 billion dollar mark at an unbelievable rate, the big MCU finale’s current total at the international box office stands at 2.485 billion dollars. The Marvel movie is the second highest grossing film of all time, just behind James Cameron’s Avatar.


Advertising
Endgame, which follows the events post Thanos’ destructive snap, sees the remaining superheroes band together to right the wrongs of the Mad Titan.

Avengers: Endgame has minted most of its astounding collection from Asian countries, with China leading the pack. In India, Endgame is the only Hollywood movie to have crossed the Rs 300 crore mark.

Not only has the Russo Brothers directorial been lapped up by the audience and fans, but even film critics have been praising the movie to the skies, with The Indian Express film critic Shalini Langer bestowing 4.5 stars on the multi-starrer.
Calling it a spectacular send-off for the original six Avengers, she wrote, “Iron Man a.k.a Tony (Downey Jr) gets to settle his father issues, Captain America aka Steve (Evans) to have a shot at a normal life, Thor to choose between being god and man, Hulk aka Bruce to make peace with both his brain and brawn (though Ruffalo is Ruffalo, and sorely missed in his new green mass), Hawkeye aka Barton (Renner) acknowledges his feelings for Black Widow aka Natasha (Johansson), while the latter learns about her dad and has one of the most profound moments in the film, while just eating a sandwich. Of the main people this time, only Ant-Man aka Scott (Rudd) doesn’t impress.”

Avengers: Endgame features Robert Downey Jr, Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johannson and Paul Rudd among others in pivotal roles.
