JEE is overrated.

Umm, guys I really wanna answer more questions on this series, I don't know why I've become so obsessed with it. It's very difficult to fetch questions, as you can see, I didn't serve the question well, so you can ask more and request it to me. Thank you.
Did you just notice how the whole episode was shot in black and white? That's because it shows the irony in life of students! And i guess that's how life is in Kota.

I've never studied in Kota but yeah since i am also a Jee aspirant i can somewhat relate to what TVF's Kota Factory is portraying and its so accurate. Well it's been just 2 episodes and there's a lot more to come but still whatever i have seen till now is damn true. That's exactly how your life is when you aim for IIT's and that's what problems you're going to face during those 2 years.

Plus jitu bhaiya especially that dialogue-"bachhe 2 saal mein kota se nikal jaate hain par kota bachho se 7 saal mein nikalta hai" Well no wonder why everybody is appreciating this dialogie so much but it's what reality is. Kota is home for lakhs of students and how many setas do we have in IIT's? Less than 1 percent of the students appearing in the exam. So yeah the dialogue really fits into the situation.

Well i liked Kota factory a lot of what we've seen till now and i'm excited of what we are are going to see in the next episodes.

Where everybody is just too excited for Avengers Endgame i'm just looking forward to 3rd episode of Kota factory :P
I believe Kota and its image has been a bit maligned as well. Its true that people come under tremendous pressure, be it from peers, or from relatives. But isn’t the case with every other competitive exam in India. Coachings in kota are seen as something ominous, and your kid and his childhood will get sucked there, but isn’t the case if he joins some other coaching and feel the same pressure. Yeah, like Jainism says truth has many aspects and it can not be perceived from a single dimension, the same goes with kota story.

It provides immense opportunity for anyone willing to put in the efforts and get into IIT. Seats are limited and someone is bound to fail, in case if they do, is kota to be blamed?. Teachers are paid a hefty sum, but they are way too dedicated for what they are doing. They love their students and always try to help in some way or other, through negative or positive motivation.

And the coaching part , that they only run after money and nothing else, like they showed in the reception scene, trust me nothing like that happens there. It all depends on the performance in the tests.

Moreover, we must not forget that its the duty of the society, our parents , our school education system. Basic things which are required for leading a good life, like positive life skills, yoga and meditation, small nuances , how to push yourself and be happy , are never taught to these students in their schools. Such a teaching is shunned in the name of moral science course which apparently is not marks fetching and will not add much to the scorecard.

Its also their duty they they are unable to provide a basic exposure to the students about various other streams. Why not blame the xyz schools or parents. ?

Moreover , lets not forget that unacademy is sponsoring them, so they will show what everyone wants to see.. mainly the negative sides of kota.

As far as how relatable it is to the atmosphere at Kota or any other IITJEE coaching centre then it is a bit more dull in coaching centres since usually all students live far away from each other and don't really meet after the classes. The fun moments last a short time. The rest 12 hours left after classes and sleeping need to be devoted to self study. It definitely takes time to get adjusted to those tight schedules, food and water problems but they don't last long.

Kota is a good place to study since you will find people with similar goals around you but distractions are inevitable so you need to remain devoted and motivated and work hard for those 1 or 2 years. Its really tough mentally but it surely is worth it if you make good use of it during your college days :)

All the best to all the aspirants who have the JEE Advanced on 27th May!
Being a student of Prodigy (Bansal) Classes, I can tell you that they have made it as real as it could be, nuances like the jeeja-ji relationship of Floor Manager to the entire attitude of Prodigy towards its students (Bankers-Rankers theory) is true, as I had experienced in 2016–18 (2 years) session.

One thing that almost killed me right in the beginning of episode 1 of the series was the looks of the director of Maheswari Classes, they have beautifully almost created a duplicate copy of Rajesh Maheswari (Director, Allen).

As far as the social acceptance of couples or even friends from the opposite sex has been shown, I don’t agree with it. At least, it was not the case in Vigyan Nagar where I lived. They have shown Dadabari & Talwandi in the series.

Teachers are friendly, were in my batch, not as much as Jeetu Bhaiyaa, but yes to an unmatchable extent than other cities.

Students do join individual classes, and end up ruining both coaching and individual classes.

All jargons like DPP (Daily Practice Problems) and Sheets are true.

Batches are of 5 times the strength of what they have shown.

Students face all of the problems shown, except for the food part, food is good and in fact better than other cities like Varanasi, unless you’re living in a hostel where you’re compelled to have food from the hostel’s mess only. PG walas can change their mess unlimited times until they find a satisfactory mess.

I’ll try to update this as further episodes come.
Did you just notice how the whole episode was shot in black and white? That's because it shows the irony in life of students! And i guess that's how life is in Kota.

I've never studied in Kota but yeah since i am also a Jee aspirant i can somewhat relate to what TVF's Kota Factory is portraying and its so accurate. Well it's been just 2 episodes and there's a lot more to come but still whatever i have seen till now is damn true. That's exactly how your life is when you aim for IIT's and that's what problems you're going to face during those 2 years.

Plus jitu bhaiya especially that dialogue-"bachhe 2 saal mein kota se nikal jaate hain par kota bachho se 7 saal mein nikalta hai" Well no wonder why everybody is appreciating this dialogie so much but it's what reality is. Kota is home for lakhs of students and how many setas do we have in IIT's? Less than 1 percent of the students appearing in the exam. So yeah the dialogue really fits into the situation.

Well i liked Kota factory a lot of what we've seen till now and i'm excited of what we are are going to see in the next episodes.

Where everybody is just too excited for Avengers Endgame i'm just looking forward to 3rd episode of Kota factory :P
