CEAT Cricket Awards: Virat Kohli wins International Cricketer of the Year and Best Batsman, Jasprit Bumrah Best Bowler
Virat Kohli had earlier been honoured with three awards by the International Cricket Council (ICC). On Monday he picked two more accolades - this time at the CEAT Cricket Awards.
India captain Virat Kohli has continued collecting the awards at the big stage with him bagging the International Cricketer of the Year and Best Batsman accolades at the CEAT Cricket Awards. Jasprit Bumrah won the International Bowler of the Year. Elsewhere, Mohinder Amarnath has been recognised for his contribution to the sport with the lifetime achievement award.


Advertising
He was earlier named as the ICC Cricketer of the Year, ICC Men’s Test Player of the Year and ICC ODI Player of the Year. Additionally, he was named captain of the Test and ODI teams of the year.

Kohli, one of the best batsman of his times, will lead India in the upcoming World Cup, which begins on May 30 in United Kingdom. He was unable to attend the ceremony.

“It is a great honour for me,” said Amarnath who played a crucial role in India’s 1983 World Cup winning campaign. The award was presented to him by former team-mate and the chief adjudicator, Sunil Gavaskar.


Advertising

Cheteshwar Pujara, who picked up the Man of the Series award in India’s maiden Test series win in Australia, won the International Test cricketer of the Year and Rohit Sharma bagged the International ODI Cricketer of the Year Award.

The other winners included Kuldeep Yadav for Outstanding Performance of the Year and Smriti Mandhana was adjudged as International Woman Cricketer of the Year.

In the shortest format, Afghanistan leg-spinner Rashid Khan was rewarded for outstanding bowling and Australian batsman Aaron Finch for his exceptional show with the willow. Youngster Yashasvi Jaiswal, who performed well over the year was awarded Junior Cricketer of the Year.

Among the journalists, Indian Express’ Sriram Veera was recognised for his coverage of cricket around the globe.
Complete list of award winners at CEAT Cricket Awards 2019
Lifetime Achievement Award – Mohinder Amarnath

International Cricketer and Batsman of the Year – Virat Kohli

International Bowler of the Year – Jasprit Bumrah

International Test Cricketer of the Year – Cheteshwar Pujara

International ODI Cricketer of the Year – Rohit Sharma

International T20 Player of the Year – Aaron Finch

Outstanding Performance of the Year – Kuldeep Yadav

International T20 Bowler of the Year – Rashid Khan

Domestic Player of the Year – Ashutosh Aman

International Woman Cricketer of the Year – Smriti Mandhana

Junior Cricketer of the Year – Yashasvi Jaiswal

Cricket Journalists of the Year – Sriram Veera and Snehal Pradhan

Special tribute: Late Ajit Wadekar


Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.
Sri Lankan cricketers appeal for peace after communal riots break out
All-rounder Angelo Matthews, who will be representing the nation at the World Cup tweeted an appeal for peace. Other past cricketing legends from the island nation also tweeted appealing for peace.
At least one person was killed and dozens of shops and mosques were destroyed after fresh communal violence broke out in Sri Lanka. While the unrest was concentrated in three districts north of the capital, a night curfew was imposed across the country to prevent the spread of violence. With a ban in place on social media like Facebook, past and present cricketers from the nation have been tweeting and putting out public messages appealing for peace.
All-rounder Angelo Matthews, who will be representing the nation at the upcoming World Cup, tweeted an appeal for peace saying that lives from all races and religions will be lost if violence continues. He also referred to the anti-Tamil riots of 1983 in the island nation and said the nation should not go back to that period.
Former captain and Mumbai Indians coach Mahela Jayawardene also tweeted an appeal for peace and even tweeted about a news story that another user had shared.
Former fast bowler Chaminda Vaas, recently appointed MCC president Kumar Sangakkara were also among those who tweeted asking people to preserve the peace
The Sri Lankan government has reimposed a ban on social media after the clashes. Army chief Mahesh Senanayake said the troops have been instructed to deal very strictly with those who defy the curfew and will shoot on sight if anyone defies the order.
Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe in an address to the nation, said the military has been asked to quell the anti-Muslim riot and urged public cooperation to the security forces to bring the situation under control.

The flare-up is the worst violence in the three weeks since Sri Lankan Islamist bombers blew themselves up in four hotels and three churches on Easter Sunday.


Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.