AB de Villiers pulls out of Big Bash League
South African legend AB de Villiers has decided to pull out of the next edition of Big Bash League (BBL) after initially committing to play during the final phase of the tournament.
South African legend AB de Villiers has decided to pull out of the next edition of Big Bash League (BBL) after initially committing to play during the final phase of the tournament.

While Cricket Australia has decided to make it a 14-match league affair on a home-and-away basis, there is a possibility that a lot of big names will not be available for the better part of the tournament due to cramped international calender.

According to a report in ‘ESPNCricinfo’, De Villiers was willing to play for a “limited stretch towards its concluding stages” but has now turned his back after realising that both Cricket Australia and Big Bash League wanted maximum leverage from the Proteas legend’s participation and lift the dwindling TV ratings.

“Up to this point, CA, the clubs, and the broadcasters – Fox Sports and Seven – had appeared set to put together a package deal worth as much as 350,000 (AUD) to land De Villiers for a segment of the tournament, though there was a level of disquiet about how such a deal could be struck without an equitable system being in place for all clubs to secure big names,” cricinfo reported.

De Villiers’ presence is a necessity for BBL and CA because in January, some of the biggest Australian names will first be busy playing Test series against New Zealand and then travel to India for the ODI series.

“Something we’ve really been focusing on irrespective of the Australian team going to India, we’re buoyed by some conversations that some of the clubs are having and it’s been reported some of the big names potentially coming out,” CA’s head of events Anthony Everard had been quoted as saying by the website.

“The success of the BBL has always been predicated on a combination of marketable overseas players, some young up and coming stars and the foundation of the Australian domestic players,” he added.

All the top T20 freelancers like the West Indies’ Andre Russell may decide on bargaining for better deals considering that Australian board needs saleable names for sustaining the viewers’ interest.
“Cricket Australia is committed to a competition that meets fan demands. This includes supporting BBL clubs to create a competition that features international stars to complement strong local talent,” acting Head of the BBL Abhi Arunachalam said.

“The recent rule changes have been implemented so clubs have the best opportunity to recruit overseas players among a cluttered global calendar.”

Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.

Shahid Afridi receives backlash on restricting his daughters to indoor sports
Former Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi revealed that he will not allow his daughters to participate in any outdoor sports citing social and religious views behind this motive.
Former Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi revealed that he would not allow his daughters to participate in any outdoor sports citing social and religious views behind this motive. The former Pakistan skipper has four daughters, Ansha, Ajwa, Asmara and Aqsa.

A report in The Express Tribune stated that Afridi in his autobiography ‘Game Changer’ said, “The feminists can say whatever they want about my decision.”

He also highlighted the fact that his daughters are great at sports but the cricketer will only allow them to play indoor games. “Ajwa and Asmara are the youngest and love to play dress-up. They have my permission to play any sport, as long as they’re indoors. Cricket? No, not for my girls. They have permission to play all the indoor games they want, but my daughters are not going to be competing in public sporting activities,” he added.

Afridi’s recently-launched autobiography has already garnered criticism for his views on Kashmir, age revelation, criticism of other Pakistani cricket players and his claim to be aware of the Pakistani cricketers being involved in 2010 spot-fixing scandal.

My daughters are precious to me: Afridi after backlash

Afridi’s misogynist comments in his book did not go down well and the former cricketer received backlash for the same. Addressing the same, Afridi took to Twitter on Sunday and wrote, “My daughters are very precious to me. My life revolves around them. They all have some ambitions in life and I will support them while guiding them as a responsible father.”

“I don’t judge anyone for what they do or meddle in people’s life. I expect the same too from others. May Allah bless my daughters and daughters/women all over the world! Let people be,” he added.
He had also slammed former India batsman Gautam Gambhir in autobiography and said that the Indian opener lacked personality and has an attitude problem. In an attack on Gambhir, Afridi wrote in his book, “Some rivalries were personal, some professional. First the curious case of Gambhir. Oh poor Gautam. He and his attitude problem. He who has no personality. He who is barely a character in the great scheme of cricket. He who has no great records just a lot of attitude.”

However, Gambhir responded back to Afridi’s jibe and offered to take Afridi to a psychiatrist. “You are a hilarious man!!! Anyway, we are still granting visas to Pakistanis for medical tourism. I will personally take you to a psychiatrist,” the cricketer tweeted.
He also said that the senior cricketers treated him harshly during his playing days and also claimed that former coach Javed Miandad did not let him bat at the nets once before a Test match against arch-rival India in Chennai in 1999.

Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.

Watch: ICC gives Liam Plunkett clean chit on ball tampering allegation
The English fast bowler Liam Plunkett bowled the penultimate over of the second ODI against Pakistan in which he conceded 8 runs and picked up the wicket of Faheem Ashraf.
Liam Plunkett has been cleared of any wrongdoing by the International Cricket Council (ICC) following allegations he had tampered with the ball during the second ODI against Pakistan. In the video that did the rounds on social media, Plunkett appears to be scratching the ball at The Rose Bowl, Southampton on Saturday (May 11). The alleged tampering could have been done to generate reverse swing in the death overs.


Advertising
“The ICC has confirmed that the match officials are comfortable there was no attempt by Liam Plunkett to change the condition of the ball or any evidence of this on the over-by-over examinations of the ball throughout Saturday’s ODI clash in Southampton,” said a statement issued by the global governing body on Sunday (May 12).

Plunkett himself is reported to have raised the issue with officials after becoming aware of the allegations and he has since been exonerated fully by umpires Chris Gaffaney and Paul Reiffel, with the agreement of match referee Richie Richardson.

The English fast bowler bowled the penultimate over in which he conceded 8 runs and picked up the wicket of Faheem Ashraf. Overall the 34-year-old conceded 64 runs in the 9 overs he bowled. Apart from Ashraf, he got the wicket of Haris Sohail.
Eventually, the hosts won the match by 12 runs. But if the charges against the English side are brought up and proven, it will be a big blow for hosts who are touted as favourites for the World Cup.

View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

ICC
✔
@ICC
 JUST IN: The ICC has confirmed that the match officials are comfortable there was no attempt by Liam Plunkett to change the condition of the ball or any evidence of this on the over-by-over examinations of the ball throughout Saurday's ODI clash in Southampton.

1,754
8:50 PM - May 12, 2019
1,363 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
England Cricket Board (ECB) are not known for letting players off easy. The most recent example of it is Alex Hales who got dropped from England’s World Cup squad for recreational drug abuse violating his contract.

In 2018, Australia’s Cameron Bancroft was caught on TV tampering with the ball during a Test match against South Africa. Bancroft was banned for 9 months whereas then-skipper Steve Smith and vice-captain David Warner were handed one-year ban for their involvement in the scandal.


Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.
