Madrid Open: Simona Halep beats Belinda Bencic to reach fourth final
Simona Halep reached her fourth Madrid Open final with a 6-2, 7-6(2), 6-0 win over Belinda Bencic on Friday. The world number three will move back to the top of the WTA rankings with a win in Saturday's final against either Kiki Bertens or Sloane Stephens.

Simona Halep reached her fourth Madrid Open final with a 6-2, 7-6(2), 6-0 win over Belinda Bencic on Friday. The world number three will move back to the top of the WTA rankings with a win in Saturday’s final against either Kiki Bertens or Sloane Stephens.

Two-time Madrid winner Halep broke the unseeded Bencic in the first game of the first set, the Swiss’s errant reverse flying out, but she broke back to tie at 2-2.

The Romanian’s down-the-line shot sealed another break in the penultimate game and she served out to win it comfortably in 27 minutes.

Halep won virtually all of the long rallies, but Bencic reacted well at the start of the second set, playing more aggressively. Bencic broke to go 3-1, enjoying a stroke of luck with a shot that clipped the net and dropped just over.

Halep battled back, earning a tiebreak, but Bencic won it comfortably to force a deciding set, although she immediately started to struggle. At three games down, she cried during the break, visibly emotional, with Halep immediately breaking for 4-0 when play resumed, going on to wrap up the set and the match with ease.

“It’s a nice feeling to be back in the final of this special tournament, I’m really happy playing here,” said Halep.

“In the second set in that tie break I was rushing too much, I lost control of it, but then I just calmed down, told myself I had to start the match again. I started to play smarter, opened the court more and became more aggressive.”

Marin Cilic withdraws, Novak Djokovic reaches Madrid Open semifinals
Novak Djokovic reached the semifinals of the Madrid Open after Marin Cilic withdrew because of food poisoning

World number one Naomi Osaka exits Madrid Open
Osaka, 21, admitted she over-thought about the need to win the match in order to retain her ranking at the top of the women's game as she went down 3-6 6-2 7-5.
World number one Naomi Osaka lost in three sets to unseeded Swiss Belinda Bencic in the Madrid Open quarter-finals on Thursday as Simona Halep, Sloane Stephens and Kiki Bertens completed the final four line-up.

Osaka, 21, admitted she over-thought about the need to win the match in order to retain her ranking at the top of the women’s game as she went down 3-6 6-2 7-5.

The 21-year-old Japanese was a break up in the final set against Bencic, but was broken when serving for the match at 5-4 as the wind swirled despite the blue skies in the Spanish capital.

“People have been telling me that if I get to the semis I stay at number one so I wanted to do that,” Osaka said.
“I wanted to do that and was thinking about it while I was playing, which wasn’t a good thing. I play my best when I’m calm and today I wasn’t, so that’s the biggest thing I can learn.”

Bencic will face two-times Madrid champion Halep in the last four after the Romanian beat ninth seed Ashleigh Barty 7-5 7-5.

If Halep wins the tournament she will replace Osaka at the top of the WTA rankings heading into the French Open.

Stephens comfortably saw off Croatian Petra Martic 6-4 6-3 to set up a semi-final with Bertens after the Dutch seventh seed stunned world number two Petra Kvitova 6-2 6-3 in Thursday’s late match under the floodlights.

Ankita Raina moves to singles quarterfinals in Luan
The 26-year-old ranked 175, dispatched her Chinese rival 6-2 6-3 in the second round of the tournament.
India’s top singles player Ankita Raina progressed to the quarterfinals of the USD 60,000 ITF women’s event in Luan, China with a straight sets win over Yue Yuan on Thursday. The 26-year-old ranked 175, dispatched her Chinese rival 6-2 6-3 in the second round of the tournament.

“The girl (Yuan) was very attacking and aggressive but I played smart. Even though the score looks one-sided, the match was intense,” Ankita said from Luan.

Ankita has been on a good run as she cherished a win over three-time Grand Slam champion Samantha Stosur at the USD 125k tournament in Anning and also made the final of a 60k event in Istanbul.

She next faces Hong Kong’s Eudice Chong, who is ranked as low as 497.

“About tomorrow, I would say that at this level, no match is easy and no match is tough. You have to have a balance between aggression and consistency,” she said.

Roger Federer saves two match points in 1200th win
Roger Federer survived two match points against French maverick Gael Monfils to extend his claycourt comeback and reach the quarter-finals of the Madrid Open on Thursday. He was joined in the last eight by five-times Madrid champion Rafael Nadal and world number one Novak Djokovic.

The evergreen Federer did not drop a game in a dominant first set but was dragged into an intense battle by an inspired Monfils before prevailing 6-0 4-6 7-6(3).

World number three Federer, playing his first tournament on clay for three years as he prepares for the French Open, surrendered the initiative after his brisk start and was in deep trouble in the third set when he trailed 4-1.

Federer struggled with his timing on occasions in breezy, sunny conditions and swatted a ball angrily over the stands when he dropped serve at the start of the decider.

But the 37-year-old Swiss broke back in the seventh game with a stunning sliced backhand return.

Monfils earned a match point at 5-6 on the Federer serve with an ice-cool backhand pass, but Federer followed in a second serve and bounced away a smash.

Federer saved another match point to set up a tiebreak and he proved unstoppable as he swept to his 1,200th match win.

Austrian Dominic Thiem, a beaten finalist in Madrid last year, awaits in the next round after he beat Italian Fabio Fognini.
“I think Gael did a nice job of not being frustrated losing the first set,” Federer said. “I lost five games in a row and it didn’t look good for a while but I hung in. There were some highly stressful moments but I mixed it up nicely.”

Federer’s fellow Swiss Stan Wawrinka, champion at Roland Garros in 2015, continued to produce some vintage form as he beat Japan’s Kei Nishikori 6-3 7-6(3).

World number one Djokovic was untroubled as he beat Jeremy Chardy 6-1 7-6(2) to set up a clash against Marin Cilic after the Croatian battled past Serbian Laslo Djere 4-6 6-3 6-2.

Spaniard Nadal, who later this month will aim for a 12th French Open, swept past unseeded American Frances Tiafoe 6-3 6-4 while defending champion Alexander Zverev defeated Hubert Hurkacz 3-6 6-4 6-4.


