Brighton and Hove Albion fires manager Chris Hughton after slump in Premier League
Brighton has fired manager Chris Hughton after barely avoiding relegation from the Premier League.
Brighton has fired manager Chris Hughton after barely avoiding relegation from the Premier League.

Brighton owner Tony Bloom says in a statement it is “one of the most difficult decisions I have had to make … but ultimately one I have made due to how we struggled in the second half of the season.”

In its second season back in the Premier League, Brighton finished one place and two points above relegated Cardiff after winning only three of its last 23 matches.

On Sunday, Brighton lost to Manchester City, which retained its Premier League title with the 4-1 victory.
Eden Hazard has told Chelsea decision on future
Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri said he hoped Eden Hazard would remain but would respect his decision.
Eden Hazard has told Chelsea of his decision on his playing future but said he would not make it public until after the Europa League final against Arsenal on May 29. The 28-year-old is expected to leave Stamford Bridge after seven years, with British media linking him to Real Madrid.

“I have made my decision but it is not just about me. I told the club a couple of weeks ago,” Hazard told reporters after Sunday’s goalless draw with Leicester City on the final day of the league season. “But it is not just about me. We have a final to play and then I will see.”

When asked if he had wanted his future resolved earlier, the Belgian international said: “I wanted that but that’s not happened. I’m still waiting like you are waiting and like the fans are waiting. When you’re on the pitch, you try to be focused on the pitch with the ball. I just try to do the best. I’m not thinking about… my situation or the club’s situation, I just try to win games.”

Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri said he hoped Hazard would remain but would respect his decision.

“I hope he will stay,” Sarri said of the playmaker, whose 16 league goals and 15 assists helped his side finish third. I think Eden has played here in Chelsea for seven seasons, trying in every match to do his best. Now it’s time to respect his decision.”

Liverpool’s Sadio Mane, Mohamed Salah share Golden Boot with Arsenal’s Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang
Liverpool's Sadio Mane and Arsenal's Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang both scored twice on the final Sunday to share the Premier League's Golden Boot award for top scorer with last season's winner Mohamed Salah.
Liverpool’s Sadio Mane and Arsenal’s Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang both scored twice on the final Sunday to share the Premier League’s Golden Boot award for top scorer with last season’s winner Mohamed Salah. The achievement of the three African strikers left Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp especially proud as he has played such an important part in the development of the trio’s careers.


Advertising
They all ended on 22 goals for the league campaign after Senegalese forward Mane scored twice in Liverpool’s 2-0 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers to join his Egyptian team mate Salah.

Arsenal’s Gabonese forward Aubameyang followed his midweek Europa League semi-final hat-trick in Valencia with a second-half double that helped the Gunners to a 3-1 win at Burnley. Though Mane and Salah’s 44 goals proved in vain for Klopp as his side lost out on the league title to Manchester City, who won 4-1 at Brighton & Hove Albion, he had reason to smile.

“Auba too?” said the German, on learning that Aubameyang, his former signing at Borussia Dortmund, shared the accolade. “Do they have three boots? It is good. They are all my players.”

The 22-goal winning mark was the lowest since the 2010-11 season when Manchester United’s Dimitar Berbatov and Manchester City’s Carlos Tevez shared the Golden Boot with 20 goals apiece.

Aubameyang was delighted over the trio’s African connection, saying: “I share this trophy with two other guys I like, great players and African. We are representing Africa, that’s cool.”

Salah, who had scored 32 goals last season, was not as prolific this term as in his record-breaking 2017-18 campaign but both he and Mane finished a goal ahead of champions Manchester City’s top marksman Sergio Aguero.

Of course, the Argentine, who matched Thierry Henry in scoring 20 or more goals in five straight seasons in the Premier League era, probably netted the most crucial goal with his equaliser at Brighton that set City on course for the title.
