Mohammad Amir’s World Cup hopes fade after suspected chickenpox
Mohammad Amir's hopes of playing in the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup have faded after an initial medical examination revealed a bout of suspected chickenpox.
Pakistan seamer Mohammad Amir’s hopes of playing in the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup have faded after an initial medical examination revealed a bout of suspected chickenpox. Amir will not turn out for Pakistan in the third ODI against England at Bristol.

Amir is currently with his family in London and there was no official word from the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) or team officials as to how long he will take to recover.

Amir’s World Cup selection was thrown into uncertainty after he was national selectors left him out from Pakistan’s 15-member World Cup squad.

Earlier, Pakistan captain Sarfraz Ahmed Sarfaraz had expressed concerns over Amir’s form and told a television channel, “When your main strike bowler is not taking wickets regularly obviously it causes concern to the captain.”

“I can’t say whether he (Amir) will be in the World Cup squad or not but our minds are clear about our plans and when the squad is announce everyone will know,” he had added.

Amir, who has played 36 Tests, 50 ODIs and 43 T20 Internationals in a career blighted by the 2010 spot-fixing scandal and subsequent five-year ban, was publicly criticised by Sarfaraz along with the other bowlers during the Test series in South Africa in January.

(With inputs from PTI)

Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.
West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI Highlights: Bangladesh win by 5 wickets
West Indies vs Bangladesh, WI vs Ban 5th ODI Live Cricket Score Streaming Online: West Indies battle Bangladesh in the 5th ODI o the tri-nation series in Dublin on Monday.
West Indies vs Bangladesh, WI vs Ban 5th ODI: Fifties from Soumya Sarkar and Mushfiqur Rahim led Bangladesh to a five-wicket win over West Indies.

Earlier, West Indies won the toss and opt to bat first. However, Sunil Ambris departed early with the scoreboard on 36. Windies kept losing wickets at regular intervals with Mustafizur Rahman picking 2/25. However, Shai Hope has held one end with a fine 87. Hope was dismissed as West Indies looked to up their run rate in the final ten overs. Windies were ultimately restricted to 247/9 in 50 overs.
West Indies battle Bangladesh in the 5th ODI o the tri-nation series in Dublin on Monday. In their previous encounter, Bangladesh were brilliant as they starred in all departments to defeat West Indies by eight wickets. For Windies, the challenge will be for their batsmen to keep up the same level of performance that they showed against Ireland. However, this time it will be against a more potent attack.

TEAMS-

West Indies (From): Shai Hope(w), Sunil Ambris, Darren Bravo, Roston Chase, Jonathan Carter, Jason Holder(c), Fabian Allen, Ashley Nurse, Kemar Roach, Sheldon Cottrell, Shannon Gabriel, John Campbell, Raymon Reifer, Shane Dowrich


Bangladesh (From): Tamim Iqbal, Soumya Sarkar, Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim(w), Mohammad Mithun, Mahmudullah, Sabbir Rahman, Mohammad Saifuddin, Mashrafe Mortaza(c), Mehidy Hasan, Mustafizur Rahman, Liton Das, Mosaddek Hossain, Rubel Hossain, Abu Jayed, Nayeem Hasan, Yasir Ali, Taskin Ahmed, Farhad Reza.

When is West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI?

West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI will be played on Monday, May 13, 2019.

Where is West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI?

West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI was to be played at Malahide Cricket Club Ground in Dublin, Ireland.

What time is West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI?

West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI will begin at 3.15 PM IST.
Which TV channels will broadcast West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI?

West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI will not be broadcast in India.

How do I watch online streaming of West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI?

West Indies vs Bangladesh 5th ODI live streaming will not be available on SonyLiv. You can follow the live score here.


Follow the IPL 2019 real-time on IndianExpress.com. Check the IPL 2019 Points Table, Teams, Schedule, Stats as well as Orange Cap and Purple Cap Holders.
