‘Here we go again’ Football world congratulates Manchester City on retaining Premier League title
Manchester City became the first team in ten years to retain the Premier League title as they beat Brighton 4-1 in their last match of the season. Reactions poured from across the football world as Pep Guardiola's side picked up their fourth title.
Liverpool scored, then doubled their lead against Wolves. Manchester City conceded. It looked like it was heading towards another crazy football weekend when Sergio Aguero levelled the final day Premier League match between City and Brighton. Before we knew it, it was 4-1 and Pep Guardiola’s side became the first team to retain the English title in ten years.


Advertising
While Pep Guardiola became the third manager with Alex Ferguson and Jose Mourinho to retain Premier League title, another English match saw City rivals Manchester United ended their mediocre season with another loss, this time 0-2 at home to Cardiff City.

Congratulations poured on social media from the football fraternity as Manchester City picked up their fourth Premier League title since 2012. Here are some of the top reactions:
Premier League final day Highlights: Manchester City are 2018-19 Champions
Premier League final day Highlights: Manchester City beat Brighton 4-1 to retain the title on the final day of the 2018-19 season.
Premier League final day Highlights: Holy moly, what an exciting day of football was in store on the final day of the Premier League. Manchester City came from behind to thump Brighton 4-0. It all looked well for Liverpool when Sadio Mane scored the goal. Murray gave the lead to Brighton to further dampen City’s chances.

But goals from Sergio Aguero and Aymeric Laporte has put the Blues back in the lead in the first half. Riyad Mahrez and Ilkay Gundogan fired in the second half to extend City’s lead by three goals. City retain title and became the first team to do so since Manchester United in 2008-09.

Premier League final day Highlights:

Having absorbed everything Liverpool could throw at them in a titanic title battle, Manchester City will retain their crown with victory at Brighton & Hove Albion on Sunday. It is possible they could get by with a draw, or even an unlikely defeat, as they will start the final round of a monumental title battle one point ahead but Pep Guardiola’s side know better than to expect gifts from Merseyside.

In all likelihood, City will rack up a 14th successive Premier League win and Liverpool will beat Wolverhampton Wanderers to make it nine in a row. If that happens, City will take the honours with 98 points to Liverpool’s 97
English Premier League: Manchester City crowned champions, Liverpool agonisingly miss out
Manchester City and Liverpool both finished with wins on the final matchday of the English Premier League. City, thus, successfully defended their league title.
Manchester City successfully defended their English Premier League crown with a 4-1 win over Brighton and Hove Albion. Elsewhere, Liverpool also finished the season with a win – beating Wolves 2-0 – at Anfield. City finish the season with 98 points and Liverpool missed out agonisingly with 97 points to their name.

The Reds finished on 97 points – the highest final points total of any runner-up in English top-flight history – and with just one loss all season. Yet the big prize eluded them once again.

“Back to back – this was the hardest and most satisfying Premier League. Liverpool were exceptional this year, there didn’t deserve to be a loser. I’m so happy for myself but also for the team and for the fans. There’s an incredible desire to achieve in this group of players,” said Man City captain Vincent Kompany at the final whistle.

 Embedded video

Steve Douglas
@sdouglas80
 The wait goes on but Liverpool fans remain unbowed #LFC

4
9:23 PM - May 12, 2019 · LFC Anfield Stadium
See Steve Douglas's other Tweets
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Mohamed Salah, who finished in a three-way tie for the Golden Boot alongside Arsenal’s Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and teammate Mane said, “We only lost one game all season. We gave everything. We got 97 points. We will fight next season for the title.”

For a brief period in the first half, Liverpool were top of the Premier League and were going to end their 29 year wait for the league title. At that stage, Liverpool were ahead thanks to a Sadio Mane opener while Brighton had taken shock lead at Amex Stadium with Glenn Murray leaping highest from a corner.


Advertising

Over in Merseyside, Mane side footed home a cross from Trent Alexander-Arnold in the 17th minute and coupled by the news from Brighton, Liverpool fans were buzzing.

But that happiness for Brighton and Liverpool alike was short lived. 83 seconds later, Sergio Aguero brought City level. Yet, this meant Liverpool were going to finish better than City. Argentine striker, whose last-gasp goal secured City’s first Premier League title in heart-stopping fashion seven years ago, levelled to take him to 20 league goals in five successive seasons with City.

Aymeric Laporte restored order in a week of turbulence in European football where Liverpool overturned a 3-0 deficit against Barcelona and Spurs did the same against Ajax in the Champions League.

Liverpool's Sadio Mane, left, celebrates with Liverpool's Trent Alexander-Arnold after scoring his side's second goal during the English Premier League soccer match between Liverpool and Wolverhampton Wanderers at the Anfield stadium
Liverpool finished the season with a solitary defeat in the league. (Source: AP)
At half time, Liverpool led 1-0 and City were 2-1 to the good. This put City in the ascendency and that aspect remained intact at the 90th minute – although the scores changed.


OptaJoe
✔
@OptaJoe
 195 – Man City and Liverpool have combined to win 195 points in 2018-19; the most accumulated by the top two in a single English top-flight season. Superiority.

1,070
9:22 PM - May 12, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
469 people are talking about this
Mane added a second goal in the 81st minute, again from a cross by Alexander-Arnold, to clinch a 30th win in 38 games for Liverpool in a remarkable season for Jurgen Klopp’s side that could yet end with them becoming European champions for the sixth time.

FULL TIME SCORES:

Burnley 1-3 Arsenal, Crystal Palace 5-3 Bournemouth, Southampton 1-1 Huddersfield, Leicester City 0-0 Chelsea, Manchester United 0-2 Cardiff, Watford 1-4 West Ham United, Brighton and Hove Albion 1-4 Manchester City, Liverpool 2-0 Wolves, Spurs 2-2 Everton, Fulham 0-4 Newcastle United.
