Amit Panghal: Mukkebaaz from Myna, who could get onto the podium at Tokyo Games
The Indian Express strings together the years that shaped the Asian champion, who could soar high enough to get onto the podium at the Tokyo Games next year.
Amit Panghal was born premature and spent the first five years of his life as a sickly child suffering from repeated bouts of pneumonia. But neither his small build nor a childhood spent visiting the doctor every week could stop the boy from playing pranks on towering village elders of Haryana or picking fights with bigger blokes. The 23-year-old brings the same cheeky confidence to the boxing ring, where he is shredding bigger reputations, the latest being three consecutive wins over World/Olympic medallists at the Asian Championships in Bangkok in April.


Advertising
“Back then, he would listen to the complaining neighbours with full respect,” recalls elder brother Ajay of the brat who’d stand chastised with head bowed down. “But next day, it would be the same all over again,” he laughs.

Having beaten Rio Olympics bronze medallist Hu Jianghuan of China and World Championship bronze medallist Kim Inkyu of Korea in the 52kg final, after reducing the combative Rio gold medallist Hasanboy Dusmatov of Uzbekistan to a blundering bunny, Panghal won’t hold back against the non-Asian challengers — current world champ Yosbeny Veitia and Rio silver winner Yoel Finol — when he runs into them eventually. Punching above his weight was what his village, 7km off Rohtak, remembers of the boy since his pre-teens.

Small for his age, the restless lad was known to turn up on village streets and pull elders’ bicycles from behind, steal marbles from other children and run after kites. While elder brother Ajay would win bronze medals in the Haryana State Championships twice in the late 2000s, the older sibling’s time was also spent placating neighbours. “He looked weak but he’d never shy away from picking up a fight or playing some mischief. He’d steal kanchaas during a game or run away with somebody’s kites and run so fast that nobody could catch him,” Ajay recalls.

In Bangkok last month, scything through big reputations proved to be a turning point in Amit’s career — bigger than his Asian Games gold — believes coach C Kuttappa. “I have worked closely with Vijender Singh, Suranjoy Singh and Vikas Krishan. But I must say, Amit is the cleverest of them all. He punches as swiftly as he backtracks and that’s his biggest strength. He knows that he is short but that does not stop him from trying to win. I’d call him an aggressive boxer, not a passive one,” the coach says.

Panghal would previously take longer to study opponents. “In Bangkok against the Chinese boxer, Amit knew he had to avoid medium and long range punches as the opponent was tall and caught him at close range. Against the Korean in the final, his counter-attack worked and he showed that he does not fear close range,” explains Kuttappa. For a premature kid who’d struggled with persistent health problems, Panghal had grown up pretty pugnacious.

It could be down to the earliest fight sequences he watched repeatedly: those starring Dharmendra in the movie Dharam Veer that played on a loop once a day on the local cable network. Panghal would sit with his father Vijender Singh in their two-room house in the village Myna near Rohtak and clap deliriously every time the action hunk started punching the baddies and ape his dance from the 20-inch CRT TV. It was his parents’ way of keeping him still for a few hours and not run riot with his myriad mischiefs.

“Almost every evening, I’d watch Dharam ji’s movies and sometimes, we asked the local cable guy to repeat Dharam Veer. Amit would sit in my lap and not stop clapping and jumping when the fight scenes happened. For him, Dharam ji was the world’s best fighter,” remembers 50-year-old Vijender.

At the village ground, Panghal was known for his pin-point accuracy to target kanchaas inside the circle — now, it’s punches he dodges and lands precisely. He’d follow his brother into training under coach Anil Dhankar at Chowdhary Chottu Ram Boxing Club soon after, riding pillion on Ajay’s bicycle.

Panghal would demand new gloves daily, but he’d be given only hand-downs from other trainees. “When I started to train at the village, Ajay would give me some old gloves of his friend and all I thought was to train. I kept pestering him for new gloves but he’d steer the conversation always to what to do in the ring. When I won the gold at sub-junior nationals in 2009, I won a new pair of boxing gloves,” Panghal recalls. He’d offer the new pair to his coach who’d say, “Your gold is enough for me. Train with these gloves and win more such medals,” he recalls. Next year, he’d become junior national champion.

It was the same year coach Dhankar got transferred to Gurgaon and it meant Panghal too had to shift base. With his father’s expenses set to rise, elder brother Ajay decided to leave boxing and sought recruitment with the Indian Army.

Panghal’s grandfather Jagmal had been an honorary captain in the army. Vijender tilled his one-acre farm and his father’s army pension brought in some modest additions. But Panghal’s training also meant Vijender often borrowed from relatives and friends. “I’d ask for some money as I didn’t want Amit’s training to suffer. We did what was possible, but now when I look at the medals he’s brought from the Asian Games, I realise nothing I did must’ve been enough for a boy as talented as Amit,” says the father.

