What is that one food item you eat but most people don’t?
Well, I eat few food items that majority of people would have either only heard of it or would have eaten very very rarely.

As per the question, one food item that I eat, but most people don't is.


Pirandai Chutney (Tamil).

Pirandai called as Veld grape/ Adamant Creeper/ Delvi's backbone in English.

This has many medicinal uses.

One such is, good for bones.

In those days, people used it to treat broken or fractured bones by making paste with this Adamant Creeper.

In our home, we used to make chutney with it once in a week.

Cleaning this Pirandai is one of the toughest tasks to carry on.

One has to apply Gingelly oil in ones own fingers and palm before starting to clean it as it has a pungent quality that makes our hands to itch terribly. Have to break it into pieces and peel the skin and have to saute it well either with Gingelly oil or Ghee until the colour changes and add other ingredients to make chutney.

This can either be taken with rice or with dosa and idly.

And we grow this Adamant Creeper in our home.
Dashmi made from the watermelon rind (the white part that many people throw away with the covering)
The first time my mom gave it in Tiffin to me, everyone in my class was shocked hearing how it is made. I became famous (actually, my mom), as the one who brings Watermelon Parathas.

After the red part is eaten, my mom makes small square pieces of the shell and scraps the rind by using a vegetable scraper, then it is cooked until most of the water evaporates. It is cooled and various types of flour and spices are mixed with it till it becomes like a dough, my mom then takes a small part of it and makes it round like Rotis and fries them on frying pan. It is a healthy and very tasty dish which most of the people, whom I know, do not eat.


Image source: Google

This utilizes even the small red part which goes waste with the shell.

Edit 1

The full recipe-

After you have eaten the red part make small parts of the shell and grate the rind, be careful while grating it. Don't grate the green part.


2. On medium heat, heat some oil and add turmeric and asafoetida to it as to give it a tadka, one 1/4th tbsp each. Then add the rind and one tsp jaggery mix it well and cover it with a lid for about 10 minutes until it gets brown color as in the picture below.


3. Switch off the heat and then add one tsp green chilly paste, one tsp red chilly powder and salt as per taste. Mix it well and let it cool till room temperature or until you are able to put your hand in it to knead the dough.


4. After it has reached room temperature add wheat and rice flour in equal proportion till it forms a dough. The proportion depends upon the watermelon used as some watermelons may give out more water as compared to others.


5. Make small balls of the dough and make is round with finges on plastic, so it doesn't stick to the base. You can even use butter paper below and over it to use a rolling pin and make it round.

6. Put one tsp of oil int the frying pan and fry the dashmi till it becomes red on both the sides.


Image source - I have clicked all these images while my mom was preparing it.

TADA your watermelon dashmi is ready, you can even enjoy it with tomato and onion chutney for your lunch.

It has many health benefits too. Do comments if you guys have any doubts about the recipe.

I am so grateful for this social platform, this not much known Indian recipe is getting famous. Thank you for the amazing response.
I make and eat Maggi (instant noodles) made in milk instead of water.

This makes the Maggi thick, and also cheesy “sort of”.

The best part about this is that it tastes like you've put cheese in it; and it's less on calories than cheese.

I have told this to a lot of my friends and they gross out on the fact that I use milk.

Funny part is I have given these guys the same Maggi with milk saying that it's cheese Maggi. And trust me when I say this, they licked it clean.


IMG source: cookpad

Edit 1:

People asked for the recipe so here you go.

The preparation method is the same, you just replace water with a mixture of 80% milk and 20% water (percentage may vary as per choice of creaminess you like)

The milk can make it a little light on taste but you can always add an extra pack of spice.

Benefits:

Less calories than cheese.

Creamier and tastier Maggi.

Disclaimer:

This is a self made recipe by a hungry engineer in his hostel days.

People in comments pointed out that milk and spices don't go together. Honestly, that could be true too. So be advised.

Any nutritionist or doctor can throw some light here, I will modify the answer accordingly.

BTW Maggi has lead too, just saying.

I don't know whether this counts as a food item but none of my friends eat this.

And, I'm talking about this.

