
I am a 23 year old guy in college and I still eat Amulspray infant milk powder.

I use it to make milk in my hostel room when I'm too lazy to go out and buy one. I also mix it with rice and warm water and it tastes really delicious. But most of the time, I eat it straight out of the can. Its a life saviour when you don't have anything else to eat.

All my friends make fun of me for this. There is this social stigma regarding the tag “infant milk” and eating such food item is demeaning for them, I guess. Or, they just can’t stand the taste of it.

But, its really delicious for me. So, I will still have it. :D

Edit 1 :- Wow, the response is amazing. Thanks for all the comments and upvotes.

After looking at the comments, it seems like a lot of people of different age groups love eating this product (secretly :P).
Steps to create it :

Toast the bread using an iron ( as our hostel never allowed us to have a gas burner or anything like that)
Layer it with butter (heat up a spoon using iron to ease up the process to cut the butter and melt it in winters)
Now as finale, add Pizza's oregano and chilly flakes according to your taste on the top (These are easy to get because many hostellers order pizza’s)
Best served when hot
Caution : There is a slight possibility that if not done correctly you might ruin your iron.

You may share any suggestions in comment box, that might help fellow Engineers.

Edit 1 : I would like to mention new suggestion from Monoswita Rez - To use cheese instead of butter and Yash Joshi(Not able to find quora handle) - To wrap the bread with aluminium foil to keep your iron clean.

Thank you.
Jeedi Pandu Pulusu (A stew made with cashew apple):

Though I can't say whether most of the people eat it or not, but I never saw any of my relatives or friends eating it.

This is a cashew apple. It is not available in normal markets. This fruit is ususally sold outside of cashew gardens or their nearby villages. Unlike other fruits, it’s nut is below the fruit, instead of inside the fruit.


Many years back my husband brought this home. I tried to eat it as normal fruit by biting it. But it was very difficult to eat it that way. More over the fruit was too astringent. But the sweet aroma was really good.

So I decided to make pulusu(thick stew) with it. This was how the pulusu looked like :-


Recipe: Cut 250 grams of fruit each into two vertically. Boil them in 4 cups of water until they become tender. Add juice of gooseberry sized tamarind and enough salt. Simmer for 10 minutes. Add two teaspoons of sugar or jaggery. Mix two teaspoons of Bengal gram flour (chana besan) in half cup water and add to the boiling pulusu. When the pulusu starts thickening remove from fire.

Then temper it with half teaspoon mustard seeds, half teaspoon cumin seeds, one fourth teaspoon fenugreek powder, a pinch of asafoetida powder,two red chillies and a few curry leaves.

After cooking, this fruit becomes soft and tastes great.
Thanks for A2A. During summer we prepare different varieties of fryums from rice flour,sago and urad dal at home. I really love the sago fryums or papads. Am not referring to the crispy final product that is deep fried in oil but the boiled sago. To make it clear i will explain with recipe.

For preparing sago fryums,sago is soaked in water for few hours. Green chili paste,cumin seeds and salt is added to the boiling water. Soaked sago is transferred to the boiling water and cooked till the ingredients blend well and consistency of the mixture thickens. After cooling,lemon juice is added to the mixture and mixed well. This mixture is dried in sunlight for nearly two to three days.

I have a crazy craving for this boiled sago mixture. Hence I always reserve it in a small cup and relish it when it is warm. On cooling,it is more like a glue. I like the smell of fresh lime juice,spicy flavour of green chilies and appetizing cumin seeds added in the mixture. But I have never shared my affinity for this dish with anyone lest i should not be criticized for my peculiar taste preference.
Fermented rice water.


Pour water on leftover cooked rice and let it ferment inside a closed vessel overnight. Once you wake up, extract the water from rice and drink it on empty stomach.

If you're a pure vegetarian and have Vitamin B-12 deficiency, you can drink this water daily.

If you suffer from excess body heat, this water cools your body. Just add a drop of sesame oil to the water before you drink.

This water helps you manage gastritis, especially soothes your intestine, helps IBS.

You can use it as a toner for your face.

The leftover rice is usually mixed with buttermilk and eaten along with small onions and green chillies. It's a great summer treat.
Another one, my personal favourite.

Roasted bread with Spicy tomato pickle.


If you're fond of pickles you'll know what I'm talking about. Roasted bread,butter and spicy tomato preserve is the mostly heavenly combination.
Mushroom !!!!

Yep! It is mushroom.

Our team went to team lunch. Non vegetarians ordered their items. Vegetarians ordered paneer, potato, baby corrn, cauliflower items. And I am the one who ordered Mushroom items and every one stared at me. They looked at me like seriously do you really eat it kind looks.

Come on buddies! I like mushrooms.

Some people tasted the items and from next time onwards they also started ordering mushrooms.

If any restaurant does not cook this item I really upset for that lunch but will cover with some tasty veg items as I am lacto ovo vegetarian simply eggtarian.
I have milk with turmeric and crushed black pepper, cardamom, cloves everyday in my oatmeal and garnished with almonds, walnuts, black raisins, cranberries and cinnamon powder ( also gingelly seeds and dates in winter ).

This is my daily breakfast which keeps me energetic well past lunch. Even if I am delayed somewhere and reach home at 5 pm, I do not need to eat anything outside.

I do recommend this breakfast to many people but I have no idea how many people take this seriously.

The general response is they do not have the time in the morning. Fact is nowadays breakfast is skipped mostly or taken very light.

It takes only 15 mnts to prepare and 15mnts to eat.

I feel this is a complete meal with all the carbs, proteins, fibre, nutrients.

Turmeric is full of antioxidants, good for bone health, antibiotic, anticancer, anti-inflammatory and absorbs well with black pepper.

Walnuts are also full of antioxidants and are recommended for knee pains. Cranberries are recommended for urinary tract infections.

Black Raisins are the best blood purifiers and good for digestion.

Cinnamon besides enhancing the taste is supposed to keep the blood sugar in control and helps in weight loss.

Dates are again a complete food in itself, full of all the minerals, plus the yummy taste.

Use of roasted gingelly, sunflower, pumpkin, watermelon seeds gives a crunchy taste.

I keep changing the garnishing with seeds and dates for variety.

I have been taking this breakfast regularly for at least ten years now and perhaps that is the reason for my strong metabolism, even at an advanced age. Although, it's the total lifestyle that is key to ones health.

Please note, no use of sugar at all.

I believe, Prevention is better than cure.

