Some readers requested the recipe for my Oatmeal, I am giving below :

Ingredients :

Full cream milk 750 ml

Quaker Oats. 7 heaped tbs

Black raisins 2 tbs, green/ yellow raisins 1 tbs

Almonds 10 soaked, peeled and sliced

Walnuts 2 broken in small pcs

Mix of watermelon, sunflower, pumpkin seeds 2 tbs

Whole wheat bread slices 2 ( to get the required thickness of the Porridge )

Cloves 6, black pepper 10, cardamom 6 all crushed in a pestle

Turmeric 1/2 tsp

Cinnamon powder 1/2 tsp for garnishing

Process :

Put the milk to boil in a steel vessel ( medium flame )

Add 125 ml water ( it's advisable to add water )

Add turmeric powder, crushed cloves, black pepper, cardamom powder

Add Quaker Oats, keep stirring

Add 2 bread slices ( break them )

Keep stirring, lower the flame when milk boils

The mixture would start thickening and would reach the desired consistency in 15/20 mnts

Take out in a serving bowl garnish with almonds, walnuts, raisins, cranberries, watermelon, pumpkin, sunflower seeds

Finally sprinkle 1/2 tsp cinnamon powder

It is best served slightly warm in summer and hot in winter, can be served cold also.

The garnishing with nuts and seeds should be according to taste and season. Powdered flax seeds, sesame seeds are also very good in winter.

Oats are good for digestion, heart, keeps you full for a longer time

Nuts, raisins, seeds are all full of proteins and minerals, black raisins are very good blood purifier, also good for digestion.

Turmeric in milk with black pepper is very good as an antibiotic, is supposed to be anticancer, for building immunity ( preventive to dengue, malaria, chicken guinea ), prevents inflammation, good for complexion, bones.

Young students, singles fed up of unhealthy and unhygienic food can try the above recipe. It may take a maximum of 30 mnts in the beginning, care has to be taken to boil on low flame and stir continuously to avoid pan sticking.

Wish you all healthy and happy eating !!!
I really love this dish. Its called “chikka”. My grand ma use to make it .

“Chikka” is like a thick slurry, eaten with a drizzle of oil. Many people enjoy it with milk and sugar. But the savory version is better.

Made from fermented wheat. Basically wheat is kept in water for 3 days and then we grind it. We get a thick paste then. Removal of the husk part is the next step.


Then we boil it with salt and asafoetida. Its super yummy.
Tinospora cordifoli..popularly knows as giloy or heart leaved moonseed...is a wonder plant . It is also called Amrita because its believed to be the root of immortality.


I have a weak immune system..suffered from jaundice..malaria and dengue was too generous and happened twice..so I came across this wonder herb to heal such ailments naturally.

In my place.. Uttarakhand..mostly people plant it at home for the great medicinal benefits.I knew its good for immunity..but when googled came to know more plus points:

Boosts immunity
Treats chronic fever
Improves digestion
Treats diabetes
Reduces stress and anxiety
Fights repiratory problems
Treats arthritis
Reduces asthamatic symptoms
Improves vision
Reduces signs of aging
See so much wonders this plant stem could do..I keep a stash of stems in my fridge..my mother sends me regular supplies..but I am.planning to plant it.I crush a small stem and use it in tea.The taste honestly is not great..but one gets used to it after some time.


So stay fit and have giloy..if not able to get stems from a house plant..good news is , it is readily available in market..so go ahead…Stay healthy..Drink Healthy.. !!!!
Hello friends,

Namaskar…

“Bajra ( Millet ) Maheri” is that food item which I eat but most People don't know it.

“Maheri”is very nutritious, healthy, filling and delicious food.

Traditionallly it is prepared with stone grinder that is called “ chakki” in Hindi.

But you can make it in the mixer jar too easily.

This recipe needs very few ingredients and no oil or ghee.

You need millet, salt, sour curd or butter milk.

It is enjoyed with hot milk.

Some people enjoy it with jaggery and sweet milk…and some people enjoy it with butter milk again as taste.

But in my family, it is enjoyed with plain hot milk.

This recipe is easy to make if you know its correct ratio and method.

The recipe and step by step pictures are as follows….

Bajra ( Millet ) Maheri ( Winter Special Dish )

Thanks for the question. Thanks again.
