Which Indian dish is the most popular abroad and why?
Couple of my friends, who shifted to UK (IIT graduates who are into consulting) a year ago told me about the Indian dishes which are super famous over there.

Since they are Indian’s, all of their office colleagues keep discussing these dishes like, how it tastes back in India, what is the recipe etc.

I asked what attracts them to the Indian food. He told me, most of them are bored of eating mild flavored non vegetarian dishes which are a part of their local cuisine.

And since Indian food is a super mix of spices, it is a like a treat to their palettes. This is the reason they loved India food so much.

But one thing I would like to say, it is not possible to point out one super popular dish because there are multiple. And the list is given below.

1. Rajma Chawal: Yes, not only Indians, people in UK too love our punjabi style of rajma chawal. And this is my personal favorite as well, it feels like HEAVEN!

2. Butter Chicken: Indian chicken dishes are loved all over the world. And if the vegetarians have butter paneer, the non-vegetarians have its chicken version.

3. Fried Cabbage and Peas: As we lovingly call it ‘patta gobhi matar ki subzi’. I was suprised on hearing how much british people loved it. Because whenever my mum cookes it at home, I am like, ‘save me!’.

4. Tandoori Chicken: Another not so surprising moment when I saw the name of this dish on the most favorite list. I remember watching David Rocco’s Dolce Vita India show, in which he said about a ego clash between British and Indian on the birthplace of this yummilicious dish.

5. Dal Tadka: My love is the yellow lentil dal! Super yumm it is.

6. Aloo Gobi: Yes, people in UK are crazy over simple vegetarian dishes. And they love eating aloo gobi with zeera or plain rice.

7. Dahi Papdi: One reason why people abroad love dahi papdi chaat a lot is because of the cool, creamy texture of yogurt which gets a flavor kick because of the tamarind and green chutney.

8. Chicken Tikka Masala: Another Indian favorite is the chicken tikka masala. It seems that people there are crazy for Indian masalas and powerful flavors. It is a super hit food trend at weddings in India as well as abroad.

9. Mattar Paneer: Reason why people in UK love mattar paneer is because this flavorful sabzi gets ready within 30 minutes.

10. Non Veg Samosa: My friend told me that unlike aloo filled samosa, the people over there loved samosas filled with chicken or lamb mixture. Even he fell in love with those samosas with a non veg twist.

11. Hyderabadi Dum Biryani: Indian rice is famous all over the world and their particular favorite is hyderabadi biryani made of basmati rice.

12. Naan: Apart from rice, people there also love the crispy and butteriness of naan bread. With so many varieties available like cheese, garlic, and even beef naan.

I am an Indian who lives in Poland and I’m writing this answer from the perspective of my Polish friends and from what I have observed in them.

People in Poland know very well about butter chicken, chicken tikka masala and dal tadka. On some lucky days, you can get these in food trucks. Poles love to explore food all over the world and Polish food itself consists of plethora of dishes. They admire different flavors and adore the smell and taste of various spices used in Indian food.

Its a country where mothers and grandmothers bake their own bread or go and buy the freshest of bread from piekarnia (Bakery in Polish) early in the morning. Thus, Naan which is cooked fresh finds itself in their favorable list.

Any Polish person who happens to drink chai, likes it enough to jump with joy when you offer it to them the next time. My friend can now prepare chai and did it for himself once and surprised me by sending its photograph.

Our Indian curd is same as their Zsiadłe mleko. Polish grandmothers consider it to be typically Polish while our Indian grandmothers would disagree and claim it to be of Indian origin. A Polish mother blends this with fruits in summer and gives to her family. Well, this reminds me of Lassi and Mango Lassi that we have in India. Having a similar blended drink in the country, Lassi of different varieties is the most demanded drink in Indian restaurants in Poland.

The spice in food doesn’t refrain Poles from having any of the Indian dishes. The spice endurance level of people in Poland is as varied as people in India. My friend likes to eat the spiciest of food and loves to try different Indian spicy dishes. For most Poles, Indian food is full of flavors and they like it.
These Indian dishes are tops in restaurants throughout Malaysia - virtually “everyday” food.

Below: teh tarik (“pulled tea”) and roti paratha (roti canai).

Below: naan with tandoori chicken.

Below: biryani with sides: boneless chili chicken and mixed pakora (veg and cheese).

Below: thosai (dosa) of various kind: plain, ghee, masala with condiments (vegetarian restaurant).

Below: Hyderabad dum biryani (vegetarian).

Below: South Indian ‘banana leaf rice' comes with vegetable sides and an assortment of curries as well as meat: seafood, mutton, chicken.

There are other dishes that are also popular; we like Indian food for the variety of flavours, aroma, texture and different tastes. Always sumptuous. Indian food makes the best use of spice in any cuisine, the most unique tasting dishes that grows on you, addictive. These dishes and more are mainstays in our daily food consumption.

Indian cuisines are now treated as most esteemed food all over the world and its popularity is increasing day by day no matter its in U.K or U.S.A.
The abundance of Indian street food outlets and restaurants are a common scene that can be observed across the globe. The spices of India are now urging the food lovers and critics to taste their opulent dishes.
Here we will provide you with top 10 count down of world famous Indian Cuisines that one should and must try before dying.

10. Malai Kofta

One of the most esteemed vegetarian dish is the Malai Kofta. Koftas made either from Bottle Gourd (lauki) or Potatoes or else with green unripe bananas, in a rich spicy gravy can even defeat the non-veg meatballs. It is no less delicious and the look of it might convince non-vegetarian lovers opt for it in place of a non-vegetarian dish.

9. Dal Makhni

A favorite in the North India, Dal Makhani is a must-have dish during any festive occasion. The domestic popularity has led it to be one of the most loved dals. While taken with Indian bread or chapattis, the taste of it emerges higher level of sensations inside one's mouth.

Third party image reference

Also called as Lamb Rogan Josh, it is a Kashmiri delicacy which has found admirers elsewhere as well. Cooked with various spices ranging from cinnamon, cardamom, bay leaves, the vivid flavors make this dish robust and makes for a grand meal.

7.Kebabs

A favorite dish of many travellers who visit India is Kebabs, as they often enjoy this dish in Indian restaurants abroad. This dish consists of meat which is arranged in a skewer and grilled over coal of local village woods. The delicious taste and aroma has made this dish gain billions of fans.

6.Samosa

Another street food popular amongst many is Samosa. Made of maida, it is filled with a mixture made of potato, onions and a few spices. Eaten either with tomato chutney or coriander chutney, the yummy taste of samosa gets doubled. This famous snack of our country has become a delicate snack for global food lovers.Recently people across the globe are becoming fan of chocolate samosas also(samosa filled with dark chocolate).

5.Chaats and panipuris

It is a street food but is loved by people across the country and globe. Eaten with spicy water and sometimes sweet water, Panipuri also called as Golgappas(fuchka in Bengali) may make you make those weird faces when the spiciness and sourness blasts on the tongue. There is a whole range of chaats other than Panipuris that are a delight to eat such as Aloo Tikki, Papdi Chaat, Sevpuri Chaat. Aren’t you feeling the urge to go down the street now and order one?These are also believed to increase your food apetite and helps in good digestion.
