
4.Chole Bhature

Don’t you remember having those Special Sundays or holidays meant for Chole Bhature. This dish would make you lick your fingers non-stop and wish to demand one helping after the other. Having originated from Punjab it is a combination of chole or chick peas with fried Indian bread also called Bhatura.

3.Biryani

Said to have been invented from the core of South India, with the famous Hyderabadi Biryani, Biryani is another delicacy of our country that has gained fame. "Basmati" (type of rice) is preferred to make Biryani, whose aroma itself will make one dive on it on being served. The ‘menu’ thus, no wonder, carries a special section of Biryani and includes its varieties, such as Egg Biryani, Chicken Biryani, Fish Biryani, Dum Biriyani, Mutton Biriyani and a lot.

2.Idli, Dosa, Vada with Sambhar

Though these food items are a bit sour due to the use of fermantated rice flour as the main ingredients, It will bring you a heavenly taste that will last for long! Of the many famous south Indian dishes, the one whose prestige has touched the taste buds of food lovers across the world is Dosa, Idli, Vada with the tangy sambhar. Masala Dosa being favorite out of the lot, this offering from the southern part of our country is definitely doing wonders globally.
Wheyier People..

Abroad or Saat Samundar Paar, there are so many dishes which are famous.

Here are some of them :


Chicken Tikka - Undoubtably most loved food in the world


After you spend weeks having outside food, a simple dal chawaal is like heaven


Briyani


Aloo Paratha


Tea and PARLE g

Luchi and Aloo


Wow and yumm paneer tikka
In America at least, it seems like a lot of people really like Indian non-veg dishes. Many of my American friends have told me that they absolutely love things like Chicken Biriyani, Butter Chicken, and Chicken 65. Being a vegetarian, I can’t say I relate, but back in the day when I did eat chicken, I do remember somewhat liking it.

As for why? I’m guessing that they like the blend of spices used for the chicken. India is the spice capital of the world, you know!

Chicken Biriyani
Top 10 Regional Dishes Of India Which Are World Famous in 2019
January 25, 2019

Indian cuisines are now treated as most esteemed food all over the world and its popularity is increasing day by day no matter its in U.K or U.S.A.
The abundance of Indian street food outlets and restaurants are a common scene that can be observed across the globe. The spices of India are now urging the food lovers and critics to taste their opulent dishes.
Here we will provide you with top 10 count down of world famous Indian Cuisines that one should and must try before dying.

10. Malai Kofta


Third party image reference

One of the most esteemed  vegetarian dish is the Malai Kofta. Koftas made either from Bottle Gourd (lauki) or Potatoes or else with green unripe bananas, in a rich spicy gravy can even defeat the non-veg meatballs.It is no less delicious and the look of it might convince non-vegetarian lovers opt for it in place of a non-vegetarian dish.

9. Dal Makhni


Third party image reference

A favorite in the North India, Dal Makhani is a must-have dish during any festive occasion. The domestic popularity has led it to be one of the most loved dals. While taken with Indian bread or chapattis, the taste of it emerges higher level of sensations inside one's mouth.

8.Rogan josh

Also called as Lamb Rogan Josh, it is a Kashmiri delicacy which has found admirers elsewhere as well. Cooked with various spices ranging from cinnamon, cardamom, bay leaves, the vivid flavors make this dish robust and makes for a grand meal.

7.Kebabs

A favorite dish of many travellers  who visit India is Kebabs, as they often enjoy this dish in Indian restaurants abroad. This dish consists of meat which is arranged in a skewer and grilled over coal of local village woods. The delicious taste and aroma has made this dish gain billions of fans.

6.Samosa

Another street food popular amongst many is Samosa. Made of maida, it is filled with a mixture made of potato, onions and a few spices. Eaten either with tomato chutney or coriander chutney, the yummy taste of samosa gets doubled. This famous snack of our country has become a delicate snack for global food lovers.Recently people across the globe are becoming fan of chocolate samosas also(samosa filled with dark chocolate).

5.Chaats and panipuris

It is a street food but is loved by people across the country and globe. Eaten with spicy water and sometimes sweet water, Panipuri also called as Golgappas(fuchka in Bengali) may make you make those weird faces when the spiciness and sourness blasts on the tongue. There is a whole range of chaats other than Panipuris that are a delight to eat such as Aloo Tikki, Papdi Chaat, Sevpuri Chaat. Aren’t you feeling the urge to go down the street now and order one?These are also believed to increase your food apetite and helps in good digestion.

4.Chole Bhature

Don’t you remember having those Special Sundays or holidays meant for Chole Bhature. This dish would make you lick your fingers non-stop and wish to demand one helping after the other. Having originated from Punjab it is a combination of chole or chick peas with fried Indian bread also called Bhatura.

3.Biryani

Said to have been invented from the core of South India, with the famous Hyderabadi Biryani, Biryani is another delicacy of our country that has gained fame. "Basmati" (type of rice) is preferred to make Biryani, whose aroma itself will make one dive on it on being served. The ‘menu’ thus, no wonder, carries a special section of Biryani and includes its varieties, such as Egg Biryani, Chicken Biryani, Fish Biryani, Dum Biriyani, Mutton Biriyani and a lot.

2.Idli, Dosa, Vada with Sambhar

Though these food items are a bit sour due to the use of fermantated rice flour as the main ingredients, It will bring you a heavenly taste that will last for long! Of the many famous south Indian dishes, the one whose prestige has touched the taste buds of  food lovers across the world is Dosa, Idli, Vada with the tangy sambhar. Masala Dosa being favorite out of the lot, this offering from the southern part of our country is definitely doing wonders globally.

1.Butter Chicken

The famous Punjabi delicacy is loved by food aesthete across the globe. Considered to be one of the most popular non-vegetarian dish, this dish is a compilation of various Indian spices and herbs along with butter and mouthwatering chicken marinated overnight in yoghurt and lemon. Just simply mentioning of the process has made my mind wander into fairy world and I am sure you are going through the same.
