
Most Indians are unaware of the optimum protein intake needed in our daily diet…
70% of people believe that proteins are easily available in fruits and vegetables and 73% urban Indian population think leafy vegetables contain more protein… But that’s not the case….
Indian diet is highly dependent on rice and wheat products and our daily diet is majorly driven by it . But we should not forget that pulses are the powerhouse of nutrients …Pulses not only gives a good calorie amount but also is low in Glycemic Index which is beneficial in controlling blood sugar levels.
A mis-belief works among Indians that protein is only essential for athletes, weight lifters or sportsmen…This is just wrong….Every adult irrespective of their lifestyle and physical activity level requires at least 0.6–0.8 gms of protein per kg of body weight . This is almost 2–2.2 gms for athletes or bodybuilders..
People in India can absolutely afford a good protein diet… But there is paucity of smart choices… Only making imperceptible changes to your diet will do wonders…Let me tell you how:-

Switching to healthy snack options:-

Instead of snacking on high sugary items opt for something healthier…. Go for cheese; hard boiled eggs ; roasted peanuts ; sprouts;peanut butter sandwich; yogurt;banana with peanut butter;handful of nuts;roasted channa;protein bars;protein chips;etc

Most of the above mentioned snacks are quite cheap .!!

Replace cereals with Eggs/Egg whites:-

Cereals are high in carbs and low in protein content… Opt for eggs which is high in protein and is good source of healthy fats… I would recommend you to limit your eggs intake to 3–4 per day… You can consume as many egg whites you want..!!

Replace rice with Quinoa:-

A cup of quinoa will provide twice the protein and about 5 grams more fiber than the same amount of white rice.

Replace cold drinks /packaged juices/ energy drinks with Namkeen lassi/Protein shakes:-

Namkeen lassi and Protein shakes are far better options than those sugary drinks…Make the right choice.!!

Including paneer(cottage cheese) in your dinner:-

Paneer contains casein protein in majority… Casein are slow digesting protein hence will prevent catabolism during night..

Including green peas in your diet:-

Low in calories, high in fibre and protein, green peas helps in keeping a check on your blood sugar. According to experts, one cup of green peas on a daily basis is good enough to make the diet rich in protein…

Including Gram flour(besan) in your diet:-

Besan is super-fine flour prepared from pure chana dal…It has more protein than wheat flour. 100 grams of besan has 20 grams of protein, as compared to 12 grams in whole wheat flour…
I'm currently in 12th standard(results not out yet so I assume 12th’s not over)

I have a decent amount of knowledge in exercise and nutritionist stuff and wanted to pursue a trainer degree. But I deleted that thought as soon as I remembered that I'm Indian.

In India there are very less certifications. You'll find almost every gym trainer has no certification.

People are misguided by the so called indian tradition. I don't know why but sweet means 1kg sugar/jaggery in 1 “mithai” and way too much red chilli powder and salt for “namkeen”

Supplements here are considered as a deadly drug.

Then comes 3 day per week egg guys or the guys who eat eggs only in cakes (this one is me)

Protein source in vegetarian diet is assumed to be only from those pulses which is utter nonsense. There are many plant based protein sources. But vegetarian diet is deficit of Leucine which initiates muscle synthesis leading to a more muscular body.

Only certain foods are chosen which are high in carbohydrates like the white rice. People just eat a heaping plateful of rice and then lay on their beds and get confused after the sudden fat gains.

Protein is mainly concentrated in animal products.

Complete protein= useful protein

Amino acids and that too essential ones are required to make a complete protein but vegetarian diet doesn't give you that.

Note : This is what I feel and what I have observed in families so far. Wrote this answer for awareness so that more people read about it and research themselves. No one will spoon feed you
No I don't think it's about affordability

It's about belief. Many people in India are vegetarian.

The standard Indian diet comprises

Dal Pulses 30grams of pulses gives 6 grams of protein
Rice: A cereal 30gms 3grm of protein
Roti: Indian bread : 30gms 3grm of protein
Sabji: Vegetables there is a variety of tasty and healthy vegetable recipes that is good for health and fruits
Milk , curd that meet the requirements
Vegetarian source of protein includes Soyabean, paneer, tofu
You wouldn't believe this but vegetarians are quite Healthy and many don't have vitamin B12 deficiency.
As for those who eat non vegetarian foods have fish, eggs, meat, chicken. But we don't have steamed food much
We like flavor and spice in our food.
India is all about love, affection, emotions and culture..
I will say majority of Indians can afford protein diet, it is only lack of awareness that cause protein malnutrition. Not all can afford protein supplements, but majority can afford peanuts, sesame seeds, ladies finger, eggs, fish, green gram, bengal gram etc. which are affordable foods rich in proteins. In government schools, protein-carbohydrate rich food is given free to children. The Amritam powder served in Kerala Anganvadis (Government pre-nursery schools is rich in protein). Satu, the protein powder made in villages is rich in protein. Saiprotein made by women volunteers of Sathya Sai Organization and served free to children in villages and poor families is rich in protein. Majority of indian foods like dal chawal, rice with sambar, puliyodharai, idli sambar, egg and appam, rice with fish curry, or simple sesame balls with jaggery, peanut chikki etc. are rich in protein. Most of the prasadams in temples like puliyodharai, rice with sambar or rasam at lunch, vada (made with dal) are rich in protein and most temples in south india do annadanam (free food). So, protein diet is available to all in India.
No i am not agree with the statement the Indian people are deficient in protein because they do not have the exact knowledge and information about the protein rich sources and food. Because the pulse are rich in protein and more than half of the Indians used to consume dal in their daily diet. They are not aware of which dal is rich in protein and what is the other vegetables and non vegetable sources of protein.

Pulses & legumes like bengal gram whole, bengal gram dal, green gram, lentil,peas, red gram dal, soyabens and rajma are some of the most consumed protein rich foods in India and are affordable. Non veg like lean meat, egg and fish are also a good source of protein and are consumed by most of the Indians.

But the problems is they are not aware about the pattern how to consume the food to obtained or utilizes the maximum amount of protein in the body. Their faulty food habits are responsible for this.

Hope the answer is helpful foe you
Protien is costly compared to carbohydrates and we pefer to eat lot of cabs in day to day life than any other food. Its because the lack of knowlege regarding healthy food and also our negligence towards health or healthy eating.

In india we like to spend money on hospiatl bills and medicines but not on food, i mean healthy food, we will spend on junk food without any hesitation.
In india maximum num of people are pure vegetarian who don't even eat eggs and getting lean source of protein from a vegetarian diet is not possible.

But like others they also want to build that lean body and for that they need lean source of protein , if someone don't eat even a eggs and his genetics are not too good so that person needs dietary suppliment in their diet and dietary suppliments are costly in india.
If we are not able to afford to buy something, it clearly conveys that we are economically weaker. But when it comes to including protein in the diet, Indians are definitely lagging behind.

The main reason for this is our cultural heritage which includes not just protein but every macronutrient in good proportions. Indian is a secular country, we have every kind of people here. Some eat non-veg diet, others follow the vegetarian diet pattern. There’s another class of people who follow the vegan diet. So, what we understand from this is people are either not educated about the importance of protein in their diet or that they think what they eat is good enough.

My answer to this question would be, Indians do include protein in their diet but not in the required proportion.
In general if you look at the diet of any part of the world,it consists of high carb, moderate fat and low protein it is because your body needs this macro to function properly and to do day to day activity.

so, it's not only in India but also in many parts of the globe people face the same problem.

some of the reason people can not afford it :-

1.Most of them are vegetarian:- Roughly about 40% of people do not eat eggs, chicken, fish which are the lean source of protein with high bioavailability of the protein. among which eggs are the cheapest source of protein. as a result, they have to rely on the supplemental protein(which are not budget friendly


especially in India) to complete the daily protein intake.

2.The mentality of the people:- Generally People in India do not want to spend much on Nutrition food, they want to keep it as minimum as possible as a result it seems to be costly. One of the main reason for this is lack of knowledge and education.

3.Logistic facility:- In India, the transportation system is not so efficient as a result the cost of the product has to be increased to overcome the transportation cost.mainly in metro cities people have to pay high prices.
Proteins are an important part of any diet plan. It can be found in chicken,paneer,eggs,tofu,fish,dal ,etc. These things are usually eaten occasionally considering a middle class family. However,when you are following a diet-weightloss/weightgain these need to be included in your diet everyday. Moreover if you are building up your body, these may be required in a high quantity.I’m not on a weight gain program but i do know people who consumed a dozen eggwhites a day because their workout is intense and they do need a lot of proteins in their diet.

No proteins-> weakness-> less workout->no results!

Next, the protein supplements. For a working person with a 9–5 job, it may not be possible for him to follow his diet religiously. Infact, anyone who is deficient in proteins in their diet need to rely on the protein supplements. Another reason why protein supplements are important for a person who is building up is -the natural foods supplying proteins may be good but they also bring along fats (which aren’t bad ones ofcourse but they make ur fat intake imbalanced). Protein shakes fit the best in such a situation. They come at a higher price like whey protein for around 3–4k. Totally depends on the brand and where you are buying it from.

However ,people forget its a supplement. You cannot depend on it entirely just to get results quickly. It totally depends on your diet and what was your food intake for that day. For example, if you are on a fat loss program and have met the protein requirement for the day, u may not take whey protein that day.

Eating healthy,a good body definitely comes for a high price which cannot be affordable at times. But hey ! thats going to keep you away from the not so affordable fees at the doc ! :)
Protiens are the rich world’s new diet obsession , so meeting protein demand on a daily basis can hit your wallet quite often .

Not all natural protein sources are expensive , some include :

Eggs , oats , pumpkin seeds , milk

Chickpeas : the best bang for your buck !
Because most of the meat produced is exported and hence it's one of the top meat exporters of world.

Protein diet is not easily affordable as it costs more, cooked occasionally and is considered a luxury.

Most Indian families are not well off and struggle for yearly supplies of staple foods like Wheat and Rice, farmers are not doing well on account of scanty rains.
The younger generation do follow the diet. But if we look for the answer as to why it seems tone difficult ti follow, one reason could be that different states in India has different staple food. It could be that it gets difficult to jump from one food to another and really follow it when most of the families in India come under middle class. They are just happy and content in what they eat.
