What do people eat for breakfast in India?
First and foremost thing about breakfast is..It provides our body with much needed fuel and energy after a overnight of fasting. This is why this meal is known as breakfast( Breaking the fast).

I try to provide more insights about what we eat for “ Breaking the fast ”

Delicious Dosa and it’s types.
Masala Dosa(Dosa stuffed with aloo mash up).This is my favorite so i started with this : )
Plain Dosa
Ravva Dosa

Pesarattu with Upma( Mung bean dosa with upma mix). This is Andhra special.

Iconic Idly ( Idly with ghee and karapodi-spicy powder is a good combination to try). Idly with chutney and sambar ...
Iconic Idly ( Idly with ghee and karapodi-spicy powder is a good combination to try). Idly with chutney and sambar is more prefered.

Gare/Vada (There is a Telugu saying on this dish that showcases the great taste of it ). Here it is
“ Thinte gharelu ay thinali vinte mahabharatham ay vinali - If one prefers to eat, they must eat Gare and if one prefers to hear, they must hear Mahabharatham ”

Upma and it’s types.

Poori

Semiya Upma( Vermicelli Upma)

Lemon Rice

Punugulu( Originated in our home town, Vijayawada)

Mysore Bonda

Uttapam

Pongal

Poha ( Flattened Rice)

Paratha and it’s types.

Samosa

Kachori

Dhokla
Well! I live in Hyderabad. My mom is a teacher and we should leave home by 7:00 am morning everyday except Sunday. So this is everyday breakfast .

Case 1:
Does anyone love upma?

Monday :

Upma - Upma Rava Version 
Tuesday :

Upma- Bambino Vermicelli Version(Roasted bambino :D)Semiya Upma


Wednesday :

Upma - Wheat Rava Version (Godhuma Rava upma )

Thursday :

Upma - Tomato Version of it. (I call it red upma)

Friday :.Upma - Aval Version (Atukulu upma)- upma made with poha and other veggies.

Saturday :

Upma - Sabudana Version (I love this one.)

Sunday : Special ?

Yeah!!!

May be Poori or Vada

Case 2 :
My mom prepares Idli and Dosa Batter and put it in fridge.

So in alternate days- Idli or Dosa. Or May be types of Dosa. Onion dosa or omlete dosa , she make many versions of it.

Case 1 and Case 2 repeats like a cycle.

I got used to eat upma that whenever I am hungry I ask her to do upma. Upma is like maggi. 2 min - Upma done!

And never miss your breakfast :D ;)

Thanks :)
As everybody knows,India is a diverse country. Difference of culture also brings a small changes in dishes. So let’s start with northern india..

Jammu :- Chole kulche..

Punjab:- Aalo ke parantha with lassi..

Delhi :- Delhi wale bina momos ke nii rh skte ..(Delhite can’t live without momos..)(Used in evening as snacks)

Up :- Aalo ki sabji puri..

Assam:-Their traditional food..

Now moving slowly to southern india..

Eastern India..

Odisha:- dahi bhara aalo dum..

Andhra pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil nadu,kerela:- delicious idli , sambhar, uttapam..

Moving back to west central india

Goa:- Pav bhaji..(You must try..)

Mumbai :- Vada pav..

In middle of country..

Madhya pradesh :- poha jalebi(my second favourite)

Rajasthan:- Kachori (my favourite) (I can bet it is more addictive than quora..)

Samosa..

Pic source:-Google chacha..

Answer likhte likte hi bhuk lg gyi..

(Feeling hungry while writing this answer)

Keep calm & just eat..☺☺
In most parts of NorthIndia, Breakfast is also known as “Nashta”. Breakfast is the most common meal to start your day with. A balanced Indian breakfast contains carbohydrates, protein and fiber with a small amount of fat. Most Common Indian Breakfasts includes paratha, dosa, idli, podha, dhokla with some dips and chutneys. I am from Jaipur and breakfast varies from state to state…Here, are some common Breakfast eat by the northIndians.

Bread Pakoda - A most common Indian breakfast using bread with besan coating. It is very quick and easy to make with potato stuffing…

Potato - Cheese Sandwich - Very favorite Indian Breakfast recipe with cheese and potato. This not only taste delicious but is super easy to make as well…

Stuffed Appe - Appe is most common South - Indian Breakfast dish, but it is also famous and love among other parts of India also. Stuffed Appe is a recipe for quick and healthy breakfast, stuffed with potato stuffing are just yum…

Sabudana Khichidi - Sabudana khichdi is a simple, nutrition breakfast food. Sabo is rich in carbohydrates and add as many vegetables to the recipe to pack …

Khandvi - Khandvi is a popular snack among Gujaratis, especially the kids! The texture is really soft, silky and melt in your mouth…

Poori - Poori is an unleavened deep-fried bread. It is eaten for breakfast or as a snack or light meal…

Aloo Paratha - Aloo paratha recipe, a Punjabi recipe for aloo paratha which is an Indian flat bread with a spicy potato filling. Step by step recipe…

Upma - Upma is one of the most common tiffin or breakfast from South Indian cuisine. It is made using wheat semolina(rava)…

Sooji Toast - Sooji toast or rava toast is a very delicious breakfast recipe. It is filling, quick and easily prepared by spreading a batter made with rava, yogurt ...

Dhokla - It is an ever-popular Gujarati snack, it is healthy too, tasty, juicy and Steamed…

Poha - Poha (flattened rice) is a very famous Western Indian breakfast recipe. It is very very easy to make, that made it extremely popular among all over Indians…

Samosa - We North Indians, are some much in love with this fried snack called Samosa. A deep-fried triangular snack turnover filled with vegetables (especially potatoes)…

Maggi - A perfect breakfast for sunday morning. Maggi is super simple to make. Anytime you're hungry and looking to make a quick snack, then try this delicious maggi…

Vegetable Sandwich - Quick and Easy vegetable sandwich which taste so delicious with best combination of veggies. Yummy Sandwich…

##Indian’s Breakfast Drinks##

Lassi - Lassi is a cooling and refreshing breakfast drink to have in the summers. Quite popular creamy drink among Indians ...

Banana Milkshake

## If you want to know the other quick and easy Indian Recipes
India has 29 states and each state has it's unique breakfast cuisine.

1) RAJASTHAN ( Pyaaz kachori, Mirchi vada)

2) GUJARAT ( khaman dhokla,faafda jalebi, khandvi,patra)

3) MAHARASHTRA (vada pav, misal pav)

4) PUNJAB (aloo paratha, chole kulche)

5) KERALA (idli , idiyappam)

6) MADHYA PRADESH (poha jalebi)

7) WEST BENGAL (luchi aloo)

8) UTTARAKHAND – (Locals love munching on bhatt and gahat ki dal)

9) UTTAR PRADESH (kachori with aloo ki sabzi)

10) TRIPURA (fish curry with rice)

11) TAMIL NADU (idli,dosa,vada with Sambar)

12) TELANGANA (same as tamilians eat dosa,idli , vada, poori and ponganalu)(sarvapindi - pancake made out of rice flour and peanuts is a snack item)

13) GOA (bhaji pav)

14) SIKKIM (Momos)

15) ODISHA (Pakhala bhata ,Pitha,Rooti)(Pakhala Bhata-water & rice mixed,Pitha-Like dosa)

16) NAGALAND ( rice and tathu, which is a meat dish with one or two boiled vegetable dish, rice and chutney)

17) MIZORAM (chicken with rice and green vegetables)

18) MEGHALAYA ( jadoh- rice and meat based khasi pulao)

19) MANIPUR (flat bread know as tan with black tea known as changang)

20) KARNATAKA ( neer dosa)

21) JHARKHAND (litti chokha, chilka roti)

22) JAMMU AND KASHMIR ( kashmiri bread with noon chai)

23) HIMACHAL PRADESH (siddu-bread made from wheat flour and yeast, stuffed with onion, chillies, coriander and khus khus. It is consumed with ghee and green chutney)

24) CHHATTISGARH (farra)

25) ARUNACHAL PRADESH (khura)

26) ANDHRA PRADESH (pessaratu dosa, upma)

27) BIHAR (dahi choora - poha served with yogurt and fresh fruits)

28) ASSAM (jalpan ,paani pitha)

29) HARYANA (besan masala roti)

Some of the common breakfast item Indians eat are : dosa,idli,medu vada,poha,upma,samosa,fruits,curd + paratha,omlette+ bread, Dalia(porridge).
From Karnataka we eat the following breakfast

Goundpongal with chutney and sambar

2. Menthya Parota

3. Radish and Carrot Parota

4. Aluogade parota

5.Chapthi

6. Poori and Sagu

7. Kesribath

8. Ragi Roti

9. Akki Roti (Rice Roti)

10. Avalakki (Poha) Besebalebath

11. Goju Avalakki (Tamarind Poha)

12. Lemon Poha

13. Upma


14. Coconut Dosa or Neer Dosa


15. Adai Dosa


16. Plain Dosa


17.Masala Dosa


18. Rava idli


19. Rice Idli


20.Shavege Upma


21. Uthapama


22. Vada


23. Kara and sweet pongal


