And many more delicious item’s
People in India eat a variety of breakfast items, including western food like cereals, bread, peanut butter, jam, sandwich etc. as a result of the globalization. Since people have already mentioned several dishes from various parts of the country, I would like to mention some of the famous breakfast dishes that are particular to the region of i.e. Maharashtra i.e south-western /western India. Although the state has been influenced by both South Indian and North Indian cuisines, the region has managed to retain some of its exclusive flavours. Here they are:

Kande (Onion) Pohe

2. Upma/Uppit


3. Sabudana Khichadi with curd


4. Vada pav (occasionally since vada is deep fried)


5. Misal pav


4. Dhirda (gram flour pancakes)


5. Rice Ghavan(particular to Konkan region of Maharashtra)


6. Thalipeeth


7. Amboli (made with rice flour, chick pea flour and split gram flour i.e. particularly eaten in the coastal areas of Maharashtra)


8. Dadpe pohe( raw flattened rice with veggies and lime)


9. Tikhat puri(spicy puri) - people prefer this occasionally as it is deep fried


10. Bhadang/ churmure (puffed rice with spices)


11. Chivda(most often eaten as an evening snack) (recommended smaller portions if on a diet :p)


12. Fodnicha bhaat(leftover rice tempered with spices and Indian herbs)


There might be even more to the list with various permutations and combinations.
Indian people enjoy having this type of food for breakfast.

I am British, when I visited India I tried everything I tried all the above food I would give five stars for all of them, the taste I just cannot express it was just amazing, and gives you a whole lot of energy to start your day.

In England my town restaurants open in the evening so I cannot get this food I have to wait till 5:00 pm for restaurants to open. In London I can get these foods in their market stalls.
I am a big foodie so my mouth waters after seeing the pictures :D

Anyways, let me show you some pictures of what we Indians eat for breakfast -

1. Dosa -


Dosa is a South Indian Dish. It has various types: Sada Dosa, Masala Dosa (whose picture is above), Rava Dosa, Set Dosa, Paper Dosa and so on…

2. Uttapam -


Uttapam is also a South Indian dish. It is a kind of thick pancake with toppings like onion, tomato, chillies on it.

3. Dhokla -


Dhokla is originated from Gujarat. It is made with fermented batter derived from rice and split chickpeas.

4. Idli Sambar -


Another dish from South India. The main ingredients for idli are black lentils and rice.

5. Poha -


Poha is a Maharashtrian dish. It is mainly made of processed flattened rice with also some potatoes, tomatoes, onions and chillies in it.

6. Upma (Upit) -


Upma (also called upit) is also a Maharashtrian dish. It is made of Wheat rava (Semolina) or Coarse rice flour.

7. Medu Wada -


Another South Indian dish. It is mainly made of Urad Dal and Rice.

There are still many foods we eat for breakfast but can't mention each and everything! So, stopping here.

Hope your mouth also waters after watching it! :p

So, do try them if you haven't ;D

Image source - Internet.

Thank You!

Edit -

Damn I forgot one thing we Indians drink for Breakfast

8. Chai (Chah)


Chai is an all around India drink! It is made of milk, sugar, tea powder (of course), and some masala (if you want) in it. There are various types of chai around India!

And me, personally, drink chai everyday because
I know there are many dishes but for me nothing can beat chai paratha (chapati with tea)


Some more Chhattisgarhi dishes which are common for breakfast are:

Fara (made with rice )

Chilla (made with rice flour)

Mota roti (made with rice)

Chhattisgarh is also known as rice bowl of India and it’s effect can be clearly seen on its dishes.

Edit

There is one more dish.

Chousela (rice flour poori)
We belong to India, reside in Andhra Pradesh.

In Andhra, we have many types of breakfast, light, heavy, all varieties.

Though we have many breakfast varieties, you can notice that Andhraites have adopted many recipes from other cuisines as well, like Poha, bisibillebath, Chole masala, aloo Paratha, etc.

Dosa with aloo curry, coconut chutney or mango pickle, Puri with potato curry, or chana masala is our family favourite.



Weekends imply Puri and potato curry.

Weekdays, mostly idly, with sambar and coconut chutney. This simply feels like melting in mouth. Without coconut chutney, idly taste
tastes so bland.


For a lighter breakfast, we prefer Poha or upma.



In addition to this, tea, coffee, bread, rusks are also served whenever it feels like lazy day. Tea/coffee are definitely a daily norm in most homes.
India is a diverse country. We have various types of food for breakfast and it differs from state to state. Here are some of the popular breakfast options from the 29 states of India.

