Andhra Pradesh. Moong Dal Dosa.

2. Arunachal Pradesh. Rice, pork and steamed vegetables.


3. Assam. Soaked cheera with yoghurt.


4. Bihar. Sattu paranthas.


5. Chhattisgarh. Fara.


6. Goa. Pav Bhaji.


7. Gujarat. Thepla.


8. Haryana. Missi roti with green chilli pickle and buttermilk.


9. Himachal Pradesh. Siddu with ghee and green chutney.


10. Jammu and Kashmir. Bread, butter, tea and eggs.


11. Jharkhand. Dhuska and ghugni.


12. Karnataka. Idli and Dosa.


13. Kerala. Puttu.


14. Madhya Pradesh. Poha.


15. Maharashtra. Kanda Poha.


16. Manipur. Tan and Black Tea.


17. Meghalaya. Putharo.


18. Mizoram. Rice with bai.


19. Nagaland. Rice with vegetables and pork.


20. Odisha. Santula.


21. Punjab. Paranthas.


22. Rajasthan. Dal kachoris, samosas and lassi.


23. Sikkim. Momos.


24. Tamil Nadu. Idli and Dosa.


25. Telengana. Uppudu Pindi.


26. Tripura. Rice, vegetables and boiled egg.


27. Uttarakhand. Paranthas and allo gutke.


28. Uttar Pradesh. Kachori and potato curry.


29. West Bengal. Luchi and aloor dum.


Writing such detailed answers require investment of a good amount of time. Do follow me and upvote this answer, I’ll feel grateful! :)
I belong to Haryana where preferred breakfast is Roti (Indian bread) with curd (lots of curd) and/or Chhacch (छाछ).


There is a saying about Haryana:

देसां मैं देस हरियाणा, जित दूध दही का खाना।

which translates to:

Such country among countries is Haryana, where the staple food is milk and curd.

Neighbouring state Punjab (पंजाब) more or less have the same breakfast except that they prefer Parantha instead of Roti.

Edit:

In winters: we eat गोंद के लड्डू (Gond k laddu) with warm milk.


It keeps cold at a distance since it contains a lot of clarified butter (घी-ghee).

And that is it gentleman and ladies, Moong k Laddu (मूँग के लड्डू) also serve the same purpose.

One more item which my mom made in large quantities and packed with me when I went to hostel is गाजरपाक (Gazarpaak) which is essentially finely ground carrots cooked in milk until a thick consistency and then mixed with clarified butter and sugar and further cooked till dark red colour.


That’s it. I have covered for my state.

All others answering, please detail your breakfasts for every season.

I shall love to try out all the delicacies of all the states.

One of my favourites from south India is :

Uttappam.
In Kerala, India we eat

Puttu which is made of Rice Powder and Coconut mainly. There are also varieties like Wheat, Raggi.


The side dish of Puttu can be just Sugar or some curry like egg, pea and Pappadam. In my home we eat puttu with Banana . Also with Peanut Gravy. We also eat it with non veg curries some days.

Appam, a variety of Dosa (Rice Powder) is very common in Kerala. Appam with Egg Curry or Roast is a deadly combo. Veg curries and Non Veg Curries also used.


One variety made in my home is Mottayappam ( Rice Powder mixed with eggs) which is eaten with Coconut milk and sugar.


The other Appam varieties are Idiyappam, Uthappam.

Pathiri,made of Rice Powder, it is a typical muslim cuisine made on Ramadan and Other Special days. Pathiri is eaten with any Non Veg curry like Mutton, Beef or Chicken. Coconut milk is also mixed with it.


Porotta, one of the most common and favourite food of the masses. It is made of White flour. Can be eaten with anything from Samabar to Beef.


We also have Idli, Uppumav, Puri, Chappathi for breakfast.
There are varied breakfast dishes in India. Here are few popular tasty breakfast dishes across the South.

Pori Upma (Puffed rice upma)

This is a popular breakfast in South India. Crispy puffed rice is softened by soaking in water for a while. It is then blended with veggies and garnished with cilantro.


Kuzhi Paniyaram

This chettinad delicacy is prepared by grinding urad dhal,raw rice.Batter is similar to idli/dosa batter . The batter in steamed in a mould and seasoned with mustard,split urad dhal,sliced onion,curry leaves.


Akki Roti

This Karnataka dish is prepared by blending veggies,coconut
gratings,green chilies and rice flour.


Aval Dosa ( Flattened rice/ Poha Dosa)

This dosa is popular in Tamilnadu and other southern states. This soft fluffy dosa is prepared by grinding soaked beaten rice, raw rice,fenugreek seeds and urad dhal.


Upma kozhukattai

This traditional South Indian breakfast is prepared by combing rice rava,coconut gratings along with mustard,gram dhal,asafoetida seasoned in sesame oil.


Morkali Upma

This is traditional and authentic breakfast dish in South India.Its prepared by combining rice flour little sour butter milk and seasoning.

