Delicious Iftar recipes you can try at home
During Ramzan, Muslims across the world pray and observe a fast from dawn till dusk and eat during Iftar gatherings. We bring some recipes which you can eat after your daily roza.
During the holy month of Ramzan, which began on May 7, Muslims all across the world pray and observe a fast from dawn till dusk. Worshippers eat a meal before sunrise after which they abstain from eating or drinking water until after sunset when they have the Iftar meal.


Advertising
Mohammed Anas Qureshi, executive chef at Molecule Air Bar & Kitchen shares some delicious recipes that you can prepare for your Iftar gatherings. We are sure you will love them!

Also Read: Happy Ramadan 2019: Ramzan Mubarak Wishes Images, Quotes, Status, Wallpaper, Messages, SMS, Greetings, Photos, Pics

Keema Samosa

keema samosa, iftar, iftar recipe, ramadan, ramzan, food recipe, indian express, indian express news
This keema samosa tastes delicious.
Ingredients for the filling mixture:
2 tbsp – Cooking oil
1 tbsp – Ginger garlic paste
300g – Minced mutton
Salt (to taste)
½ tsp – Cumin (roasted & crushed)
½ tsp – Turmeric powder
½ tsp – Coriander (roasted & crushed)
2 tbsp – Red chili powder
3-4 – Green chilies (chopped)
2 – Medium sized onions (chopped)
2 tbsp – Fresh coriander

For Keema Samosa:

2 tbsp – All purpose flour
Water (as needed)
Samosa sheet (as required)
Filling mixture (as required)
Cooking Oil (for frying)

Method (for the filling):

*Take some cooking oil in a pan and let it warm up.
*Add ginger garlic paste and fry it lightly. Now add the minced mutton and cook for a while.
*Add salt, roasted cumin (crushed), turmeric powder, roasted coriander (crushed), red chili powder and mix well. Cook until fully done.
*Add green chilies, onions, fresh coriander, and cook.
*The mixture for filling the samosa is ready.

For Keema Samosa:

*Add water and maida in a bowl and prepare a mixture.
*Take a samosa sheet and make a small samosa in a triangle shape.
*Apply the maida mixture at the corners of the samosa with the help of a soft brush.
*Now fill this samosa with the filling mixture.
*Seal the samosa from the corners using the maida mix.
*Add cooking oil in a pan and fry them until they turn golden.
*Serve with ketchup or raita.
Chicken Shaami Kebab

chicken shami kebab, iftar, iftar recipe, ramadan, ramzan, food recipe, indian express, indian express news
You must try the Chicken Shami Kebab
Ingredients :

1 cup – Chana dal
500g – Chicken thigh (cubes, boneless)
2 tbsp – Salt
1 tbsp – Red chilli (crushed)
7 pieces – Dry red chilli (whole)
2 tsp – Cumin seeds
2 tsp – Coriander (whole)
7 – Cloves
10 – Black pepper (whole)
2 – Small cinnamon sticks
1 tsp – Carom seeds (ajwain)
6 – Eggs
1/2 bunch – Coriander leaves (chopped)
1/2 bunch – Mint leaves (chopped)
6 – Green chillies
1 tbsp – Ginger
10 – Garlic cloves (chopped)
Oil – For pan frying

Method:

*Boil the chana dal along with the chicken thigh cubes and spices. Let the chicken cook.
*Strain and keep aside to cool.
*Add 3 eggs, chopped coriander, mint, green chillies, ginger and garlic. Mix well and mince.
*Make circular shared kebabs of the mixture.
*Slightly coat the kebabs with the remaining eggs and pan fry them in oil.
*Serve them with mint chutney and tamarind chutney.
Falsa Sherbet

falsa sherbet, iftar, iftar recipe, ramadan, ramzan, food recipe, indian express, indian express news
A glass of chilled Falsa sherbet is the perfect drink for an Iftar gathering.
Ingredients:

250g – Falsa
2 tbsp – Sugar
2 – Lemons
8-10 – Mint leaves
6-7 – Ice cubes

Method:
Advertising
*Blend some washed falsa along with sugar, lemon juice and mint leaves in a blender.
*Strain it.
*Add ice cubes, mint leaves and sliced lemon in a glass.
*Pour the falsa mix into it.
*Top up with chilled water
*Serve cold.
