Decoded: The science behind making good chocolate
The team from University of Edinburgh in the UK studied mixtures resembling liquid chocolate created using the conching process, which was developed by Swiss confectioner Rodolphe Lindt in 1879.
Scientists have decoded the physics behind a key chocolate-making process that gives the confectionery its distinctive smooth texture.


Advertising
The team from University of Edinburgh in the UK studied mixtures resembling liquid chocolate created using the conching process, which was developed by Swiss confectioner Rodolphe Lindt in 1879.

Conching is a mixing process that evenly distributes cocoa butter within chocolate and may act as a “polisher” of the particles.

It promotes flavour development through frictional heat, release of volatiles and acids, and oxidation.

The findings, published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, may hold the key to producing chocolate with lower fat content, and could help make chocolate manufacturing more energy efficient.

The analysis, which involved measuring the density of mixtures and how they flow at various stages of the process, suggests conching may alter the physical properties of the microscopic sugar crystals and other granular ingredients of chocolate.

“We hope our work can help reduce the amount of energy used in the conching process and lead to greener manufacturing of the world’s most popular confectionary product,” said Wilson Poon, a professor at the University of Edinburgh, who led the study.

“By studying chocolate making, we have been able to gain new insights into the fundamental physics of how complex mixtures flow. This is a great example of how physics can build bridges between disciplines and sectors,” Poon said in a statement.
Until now, the science behind the process was poorly understood, researchers said.

The research shows that conching – which involves mixing ingredients for several hours – produces smooth molten chocolate by breaking down lumps of ingredients into finer grains and reducing friction between particles.

Before the invention of conching, chocolate had a gritty texture. This is because the ingredients form rough, irregular clumps that do not flow smoothly when mixed with cocoa butter using other methods, the team said.

Their insights could also help improve processes used in other sectors – such as ceramics manufacturing and cement production – that rely on the mixing of powders and liquids.

From Mango Pudding to Rajbhog: Satisfy your sweet tooth with these easy recipes
Nothing beats the joy of indulging in something sweet after enjoying a hearty meal with your family and friends.  
Do you have a sweet tooth? Then you have reached the right place. Nothing beats the joy of indulging in something sweet after enjoying a hearty meal with your family and friends. So try these delicious recipes by Santu Maity, chef at The Marketplace and satisfy your sweet tooth!


Advertising
These recipes are simple to make, so you can try them in your kitchen the next time your friends or family come over. We are sure it will leave them impressed.

Mango Pudding

mango pudding, mango recipe, food recipe, indian express, indian express news
You will love this mango pudding.
Ingredients: 

2 cups – Water
1 cup – Uncooked Govindo Bhog rice
2 – Medium ripe mango
2 cup – Full cream milk
2 tbsp – Sugar
4 tbsp – Milkmade
2 tsp – Chopped pistachio for garnish
Chopped peeled mango, optional

Method:


Advertising

*In a large heavy saucepan, boil the rice. Reduce the heat; let it simmer, covered, for about 35-40 minutes or until the water is absorbed and rice is tender.
*Meanwhile, peel, seed and slice the mangos. Mash them with a potato masher or fork.
*Stir milk, sugar, and mashed mango into rice. Cook, uncovered, on low flame for about 10-15 minutes longer or until the liquid is almost absorbed, stirring occasionally.
*Remove from heat. Serve warm or cold, with chopped mango, garinshed with chopped pistachios.

Mango Burfi

mango pudding, mango recipe, food recipe, indian express, indian express news
This mango burfi is very easy to make.
Ingredients:

500g – Khoya
100g – Sugar
200g – Mango crush
Silver warq
2 tbsp – Pistachio

Method: 

*In a large non stick pan, cook the khoya and sugar, add mango pulp, Heat on medium flame, stirring continuously, for 10 minutes, or till it reduces to half its original quantity.
*Place a butter paper on a plate and pour the burfi mixture on it.
*Let it refrigerate for two hours.
*Grainsh with silver warq and pistachios.
*Cut it as you like and serve.
Ingredients: (For 8 servings)

100g – Paneer
1 tbsp – Cashews
1 tbsp – Almonds
3/4 tbsp – Pistachios
1/4 tsp – Saffron
1 tsp – Powdered green cardamom
1/4 tsp – Edible food colour
2 cups – Water
1 cup – Sugar

Method:

*Grind the cashew nuts, pistachios and almonds to a fine powder. Add cardamom powder to it and mix well. Now add the saffron soaked milk and mix well into a thick paste. Make small balls and keep aside.
*Knead the paneer and divide into two portions. Then take one portion and mix saffron strands along with yellow food colour and mix well. Let the other portion remain white. Make small balls of both the portions.
*Shape them into a small cup and add the tiny nut ball. Fold well and shape into a ball again. Heat water in a pan and add sugar. Stir well until fully dissolved.
*Gently add the paneer balls and simmer for 15 minutes over low/medium flame. Remove and let it cool. The balls may disintegrate or dissolve in the syrup, hence you must avoid stirring and keep the flame low.
*Serve chilled or at room temperature.
